《肖申克的救赎（中英对照）》


1 INT -- CABIN -- NIGHT （1946） 内景--小屋--夜晚
A dark， empty room. 一所黑黑的、空洞的房子
The door bursts open. A MAN and WOMAN enter， drunk and giggling， horny as hell. No sooner is the door shut than they‘re all over each other， ripping at clothes， pawing at flesh， mouths locked together.
门突然被撞开，一个男人和一个女人醉意地走了进来，吃吃地笑着，很是暧昧。不等门关上，他们就缠在了一块，互相撕扯着衣服，搓摸着对方的身体，两张嘴紧紧地贴在了一起。
He gropes for a lamp， tries to turn it on， knocks it over instead. Hell with it. He‘s got more urgent things to do， like getting her blouse open and his hands on her breasts. She arches， moaning， fumbling with his fly. He slams her against the wall， ripping her skirt. We hear fabric tear.
男人摸索着想打开台灯，却弄翻了它。顾不上管台灯，他有更急的事要做，他掀起她的上衣，用手按住她的乳房。她仰着身子，呻吟着，慌乱地解着他的钮扣。他猛地将她顶在墙上，撕扯她的裙子。可以听到织物被撕破的声音。
He enters her right then and there， roughly， up against the wall. She cries out， hitting her head against the wall but not caring， grinding against him， clawing his back， shivering with the sensations running through her. He carries her across the room with her legs wrapped around him. They fall onto the bed.
他粗鲁的进入了她，顶着墙壁。她大声叫着，扭曲着身体迎合他，抓着他的后背，随着插入的感觉颤僳，毫不在意她的头抵着墙壁。他抱着她穿过屋子，她的双腿则夹着他，两人跌倒在床上。
CAMERA PULLS BACK， exiting through the window， traveling smoothly outside……
镜头向后拉，退出窗户，平滑地向外伸展……
2 EXT -- CABIN -- NIGHT （1946） 2 外景--小屋--夜晚
……to reveal the bungalow， remote in a wooded area， the lovers‘ cries spilling into the night……
偏僻的小树林中展现出那间小屋，那对情人的叫声涌进黑夜……
……and we drift down a wooded path， the sounds of rutting passion growing fainter， mingling now with the night sounds of crickets and hoot owls……
沿着林间小路，情欲之音逐渐减弱，与蟋蟀和猫头鹰的叫声混在一起……
……and we begin to hear FAINT MUSIC in the woods， tinny and incongruous， and still we keep PULLING BACK until……
隐隐的音乐在树林中响起，既微弱又不协调，镜头继续后拉直到……
……a car is revealed. A 1946 Plymouth. Parked in a clearing.
一辆轿车显现出来。是辆1946年的普利茅斯。泊在林中的一块空地上。
3 INT -- PLYMOUTH -- NIGHT （1946） 3 内景--普利茅斯--夜晚
ANDY DUFRESNE， mid-20‘s， wire rim glasses， three-piece suit. Under normal circumstances a respectable， solid citizen; hardly dangerous， perhaps even meek. But these circumstances are far from normal. He is disheveled， unshaven， and very drunk. A cigarette smolders in his mouth. His eyes， flinty and hard， are riveted to the bungalow up the path.
安迪•杜弗兰，二十五、六岁，金边眼镜，西装革履。正常情况下会是一位体面的、可靠的公民；没有危险，甚至还有些温顺。但现在的情况却很不正常。他头发凌乱、胡子未刮，醉意醺醺，嘴里还怄着雪茄。眼神又直又僵，死盯着小径前方的那间小屋。
He can hear them fucking from here. 他听得到他们在做爱。
He raises a bottle of bourbon and knocks it back. The radio plays softly， painfully romantic， taunting him:
他举起一瓶波旁威士忌，大口大口的喝。无线电里那绵绵的，令人心烦的浪漫小调，嘲弄着他。
You stepped out of a dream…… You are too wonderful…… To be what you seem……
你走出梦境……你如此精彩……你仿佛……
He opens the glove compartment， pulls out an object wrapped in a rag. He lays it in his lap and unwraps it carefully --
他打开仪表板那儿的杂物柜，拉出一件破布包着的东西。他把它放在腿上，小心的打开 --
-- revealing a .38 revolver. Oily， black， evil. 一支点38左轮，油油的，黑色，不祥之兆。
He grabs a box of bullets. Spills them everywhere， all over the seats and floor. Clumsy. He picks bullets off his lap， loading them into the gun， one by one， methodical and grim. Six in the chamber. His gaze goes back to the bungalow.
他抓起一盒子弹，却洒的车里上下到处都是。他笨拙地从腿上拾起子弹，一颗又一颗坚定地依次把它们推入枪膛，一共是6颗子弹。他再次盯住了那间小屋。
He shuts off the radio. Abrupt silence， except for the distant lovers‘ moans. He takes another shot of bourbon courage， then opens the door and steps from the car.
他关掉了无线电。四周忽地静了下来，除了远处那对情人的呻吟。他又喝了一口威士忌，然后打开门，走出了车子。
4 EXT -- PLYMOUTH -- NIGHT （1946） 4外景--普利茅斯--夜晚
His wingtip shoes crunch on gravel. Loose bullets scatter to the ground. The bourbon bottle drops and shatters.
他的翼尖鞋轧在砾石路上，任子弹散落在地，波旁酒瓶也摔到地上，碎了。
He starts up the path， unsteady on his feet. The closer he gets， the louder the lovemaking becomes. Louder and more frenzied. The lovers are reaching a climax， their sounds of passion degenerating into rhythmic gasps and grunts.
他朝前走去，跌跌撞撞。他走的越近，做爱的声音愈大并愈加疯狂。那对情人抵达高潮，激情的声音渐渐弱了下去，变成有节奏的喘息和低语。
WOMAN （O.S.） 女人
Oh god……oh god……oh god…… “哦，上帝。哦，上帝…”
Andy lurches to a stop， listening. The woman cries out in orgasm. The sound slams into Andy‘s brain like an icepick. He shuts his eyes tightly， wishing the sound would stop.
安迪踉跄着停了下来，倾听。女人兴奋地喊着，那声音就像冰锥一样冲击着安迪的大脑。他紧紧的闭上眼睛，希望声音停止。
It finally does， dying away like a siren until all that‘s left is the shallow gasping and panting of post-coitus. We hear languorous laughter， moans of satisfaction.
最终，像渐渐消失的塞壬（译者注：传说中的女海妖，她用美妙的歌声诱惑船只上的海员，从而使船只在岛屿周围触礁沉没），它停了下来，只剩下交媾后的轻呼和喘息。可以听到柔弱的笑声和满意的呻吟。
WOMAN （O.S.） 女人
Oh god……that‘s sooo good……you‘re the best……the best I ever had……
“噢，上帝！好极了！你是最棒的，我最棒的……”
Andy just stands and listens， devastated. He doesn‘t look like much of a killer now; he‘s just a sad little man on a dirt path in the woods， tears streaming down his face， a loaded gun held loosely at his side. A pathetic figure， really.
安迪只是站在那里听着，垂头丧气。现在，他看起来一点都不像个杀手。他只是一个悲哀的、渺小的男人，站在肮脏的林中小路上，提溜着一把装满子弹的枪，任凭眼泪淌过脸颊。可怜的人，真可怜！
FADE TO BLACK: 1ST TITLE UP 屏幕渐黑，第一次字幕升起
5 INT -- COURTROOM -- DAY （1946） 5 内景--法庭--白天
THE JURY listens like a gallery of mannequins on display， pale-faced and stupefied.
陪审员们如同展览中的人体模型排成一列，面色无光、怔怔地听着。
D.A. （O.S.） 律师
Mr. Dufresne， describe the confrontation you had with your wife the night she was murdered.
“杜弗兰先生，描述一下你妻子被谋杀的那天晚上，你与她的争执。”
ANDY DUFRESNE is on the witness stand， hands folded， suit and tie pressed， hair meticulously combed. He speaks in soft， measured tones:
安迪•杜弗兰坐在证人席上，双手交叉，领带紧打、衣着严肃，梳洗整齐。说话温和又慎重。
ANDY 安迪
It was very bitter. She said she was glad I knew， that she hated all the sneaking around. She said she wanted a divorce in Reno.
“很激烈。她说她很高兴我知道了一切，她讨厌总是偷偷摸摸，她还说她想在雷诺离婚。”（译者注：雷诺，美国有名的“离婚城市”， 在内华达州西部， 凡欲离婚者， 只须在该市住满三个月， 即可离婚）
D.A. 律师
What was your response？ “你怎么回应？”
ANDY 安迪
I told her I would not grant one. “我告诉她我不会同意。”
D.A. 律师
（refers to his notes） "I‘ll see you in Hell before I see you in Reno." Those were the words you used， Mr. Dufresne， according to the testimony of your neighbors.
（看了一下他的文件记录。）“‘去雷诺前，先下地狱吧！’这是你说过的话，杜弗兰先生，依据你邻居的证词。”
ANDY 安迪
If they say so. I really don‘t remember. I was upset.
“他们怎么说怎么算吧。我心烦意乱，真的记不得了。”
FADE TO BLACK: 2ND TITLE UP 屏幕渐黑，第二次字幕升起
D.A. 律师
What happened after you argued with your wife？ “你们吵完之后呢？”
ANDY 安迪
She packed a bag， she packed a bag and go and stay with Mr. Quentin.
“她拾掇了一个包裹，她拾掇了一个包去和昆丁先生住在一起。”
D.A. 律师
Glenn Quentin. The golf pro at the Snowden Hills Country Club. The man you had recently discovered was you wife’s lover.
“格兰•昆丁。斯诺顿•希尔斯乡村俱乐部的职业高尔夫球手，你最近发现他是你妻子的情夫。”
（Andy nods） （安迪点点头）
Did you follow her？ “你跟踪她了吗？”

ANDY 安迪
I went to a few bars first. Later， I drove to his’s house to confront them. They weren‘t home……so I parked in the turnout……and waited.
“我先去了几间酒吧，然后，我开车去他家找他们。他们不在，所以，我把车泊到岔道，等着。”
D.A. 律师
With what intention？ “出于什么目的？”
ANDY 安迪
I‘m not sure. I was confused. Drunk. I think mostly I wanted to scare them.
“说不清.我喝醉了，头晕晕的。我想，我只是想吓吓他们。”
FADE TO BLACK: 3RD TITLE UP屏幕渐黑，第三次字幕升起
D.A. 律师
When they arrived， you went up to the house and murdered them？
“他们回来后，你就走到屋子里杀了他们？”
ANDY 安迪
No. I was sobering up. I got back in the car and I drove home to sleep it off. Along the way， I stopped and threw my gun into the Royal River. I feel I‘ve been very clear on this point.
“不。我渐渐冷静了下来。我走回车里，开车回家睡觉来忘掉这件事。路上，我停了下来，把枪扔到了皇家河里。这一点，我一直记得很清。”
D.A. 律师
Where I get hazy， is where the cleaning woman shows up the following morning and finds your wife in bed with her lover， riddled with .38 caliber bullets. Does that strike you as a fantastic coincidence， Mr.Dufresne， or is it just me？
“使人感到困惑的是，第二天早上，清洁女工上班时，发现你的妻子和她的情夫，被多发点38口径的子弹打死在床上。你真得认为这是巧合，杜弗兰先生？还是只是我这么想？”
ANDY 安迪
（softly） Yes. It does.（轻轻地说）“是的，是巧合。”
FADE TO BLACK! 4TH TITLE UP 屏幕渐黑，第四次字幕升起
D.A. 律师
You still maintain you threw your gun into the River before the murders took place. That‘s very convenient.
“你仍然坚持你在命案发生前把你的枪扔到了河里？这样说很有利。”
ANDY 安迪
It‘s the truth. “这是事实。”
D.A. 律师
The police dragged that river for three days and nary a gun was found. So there could be no comparison made between your gun and the bullets taken from the bloodstained corpses of the victims. And that also is very convenient， isn‘t it， Mr. Dufresne？
“警方在河里打捞了三天，并没有找到任何枪支。因此，无法鉴定从沾满鲜血的受害者尸体上取出的子弹，是否出自你的枪中，而这同样也很有利，是这样吧，杜弗兰先生？”
ANDY 安迪
（faint， bitter smile） Since I am innocent of this crime， sir， I find it decidedly inconvenient the gun was never found.
（无力地苦笑了一下）“因为我是清白的，先生，我认为找不到枪很显然对我不利。”
FADE TO BLACK: 5TH TITLE UP屏幕渐黑，第五次字幕升起
6 INT -- COURTROOM -- DAY （1946） 6内景--法庭--白天
The D.A. holds the jury spellbound with his closing summation:
律师用他的最终结论诱导陪审团：
D.A. 律师
Ladies and gentlemen， you‘ve heard all the evidence， you know all the facts. We have the accused at the scene of the crime. We have foot prints. Tire tracks. Bullets scattered on the ground which bear his fingerprints. A broken bourbon bottle， likewise with fingerprints. Most of all， we have a beautiful young woman and her lover lying dead in each other‘s arms. They had sinned. But was their crime so great as to merit a death sentence？
“女士们、先生们，你们都听到了，知道了所有的事实。我们知道被告在现场，有足迹、轮胎印，洒在地上带有他指纹的子弹，同样带有他指纹的打碎的威士忌瓶子。然而最重要的，我们知道了一位美女和她的情夫相拥而去。他们是有罪，但罪该致死吗？”
He gestures to Andy sitting quietly with his ATTORNEY.
他示意安迪和他的律师安静地坐着。
D.A. 律师
And while you think about that， think about this……
“而且，你们在考虑的时候，再想一下这点……”
He picks up a revolver， spins the cylinder before their eyes like a carnival barker spinning a wheel of fortune.
他拿起左轮枪，像狂欢节上幸运转盘的叫卖者一样旋转轮盘。
D.A. 律师
A revolver holds six bullets， not eight. I submit to you this was not a hot-blooded crime of passion! That could at least be understood， if not condoned. No， this was revenge of a much more brutal and cold-blooded nature. Consider! Four bullets per victim! Not six shots fired， but eight! That means he fired the gun empty……and then stopped to reload so he could shoot each of them again! An extra bullet per lover……right in the head. “左轮装六颗子弹不是八颗。我提出这一点，是说明这不是一时之怒的冲动而犯下的罪行，如果是一时冲动的话，即使不能被宽恕，至少也可以被理解。不，这是极端残忍和冷血的复仇。考虑一下！每个受害者身中四颗子弹。不是开了六枪，而是八枪！这意味着他把子弹打空后，又装上子弹以再次射杀！一人一枪补射在头部。”
（a few JURORS shiver）（几个陪审员忍不住一懔。）
FADE TO BLACK: 6TH TITLE UP屏幕渐黑，第六次字幕升起
1. INT -- JURY ROOM -- DAY （1946） 7 内景--陪审团室--白天
CAMERA TRACKS down a long table， moving from one JUROR to the next. These decent， God-fearing Christians are chowing down on a nice fried chicken dinner provided them by the county， smacking greasy lips and gnawing cobbettes of corn.
“镜头沿着长桌，从陪审员身上一个接一个的扫过。这些体面的、敬畏上帝的人正吃着法院提供的美味炸鸡餐，咂着油腻的嘴唇啃着可比特玉米。”
VOICE （O.S.） 人声
Guilty. Guilty. Guilty. Guilty…… “有罪，有罪，有罪，有罪……”
We find the FOREMAN at the head of the table， sorting votes.
首席陪审员在桌子一头整理投票。
FADE TO BLACK: 7TH TITLE UP屏幕渐黑，第七次字幕升起
8 INT -- COURTROOM -- DAY （1946） 8 内景--法庭--白天
Andy stands before the dais. THE JUDGE peers down， framed by a carved frieze of blind Lady Justice on the wall.
安迪站在审判台前，法官向下凝视着他，身后是嵌在墙上的正义女神像。
JUDGE 法官
You strike me as a particularly icy and remorseless man， Mr. Dufresne. It chills my blood just to look at you. By the power vested in me by the State of Maine， I hereby order you to serve two life sentences， back to back， one for each of your victims. So be it.
“你的无情和冷血令我震惊，杜弗兰先生，只是看着你就使我不寒而僳。依据缅因州赋予我的权力，特此判处你两项终生监禁，依次为你的受害者执行，退庭。”
He raps his gavel as we. 他敲下了木槌。
CRASH TO BLACK: LAST TITLE UP. 屏幕全黑：最后的字幕升起
9 AN IRON-BARRED DOOR 9一扇铁栏门
slides open with an enormous CLANG. A stark room waits beyond. CAMERA PUSHES through. SEVEN HUMORLESS MEN sit side by side at a long table. An empty chair faces them. We are now in:
随着一声巨响铁门打开，远端是一间屋子，镜头推近。七个人一本正经的在一张长长的桌子边挨着坐着，对面放着一把空椅。镜头推进房子：
2. INT -- SHAWSHANK HEARINGS ROOM -- DAY （1947） 内景 -- 听讯室 -- 白天
RED enters， removes his cap and waits by the chair.
瑞德进入，拿下帽子，站在椅子边。
MAN #1男1
Sit.“坐下。”
Red sits， tries not to slouch. The chair is uncomfortable.
椅子很不舒适，瑞德努力摆正坐姿。
MAN #2男2
We see by your file you‘ve served twenty years of a life sentence.
“我们从档案上看到你已服了二十年的终生监禁？”
RED瑞德
Yes，sir. “是的，先生。”
MAN #3男3
You feel you‘ve been rehabilitated？ “你觉得你已经悔过了吗？”

RED瑞德
Oh， yes， sir. Absolutely， sir. I mean I learned my lesson. I can honestly say that I‘m a changed man. I’m no longer a danger to society. That‘s the God‘s honest truth.
“哦，是的，先生，的确如此。我是说我已接受教训。我真的已是一个改过自新的人，不再对社会有害，上帝做证。”
The men just stare at him. One stifles a yawn. 那些人只是看着他，一个人抑制住打呵欠。
CLOSEUP -- PAROLE FORM 镜头推近--假释表
A big rubber stamp slams down: "REJECTED" in red ink. 图章猛地盖下，红色的章印“驳回”。
10 EXT -- EXERCISE YARD -- SHAWSHANK PRISON -- DUSK （1947） 10
3. 外景--操场--肖申克监狱--黄昏
High stone walls topped with snaky concertina wire， set off at intervals by looming guard towers. Over a hundred CONS are in the yard. Playing catch， shooting craps， jawing at each other， making deals. Exercise period.
顶部装着蛇腹式铁丝网的高高的石墙，被渐渐隐现的哨塔隔开。院子里是百余号犯人。玩投接球的、掷骰子的、闲聊的、做交易的，是放风的时间。
RED emerges into fading daylight， slouches low-key through the activity， worn cap on his head， exchanging hellos and doing minor business. He‘s an important man here.
瑞德慢慢地出现在日光下，戴上他的帽子，无精打采的穿过活动的人群，与人打着招呼并做些小交易，他是这里的一个重要人物。
RED （V.O.） 瑞德（旁白）
There‘s a con like me in every prison in America， I guess. I‘m the guy who can get it for you. Cigarettes， a bag of reefer if you‘re partial， a bottle of brandy to celebrate your kid‘s high school graduation. Damn near anything， within reason.
“美国的每所监狱一定都会有我这样的犯人。我就是为你弄到东西的人。香烟、大麻，如果是自己人，还可以弄瓶白兰地来庆祝孩子的中学毕业，简直可以是你能用的到的任何东西。”
He slips somebody a pack of smokes， smooth sleight-of-hand.
他驾轻就熟的顺手塞给某个犯人一包烟。
RED （V.O.）：：瑞德（旁白）
Yes sir， I‘m a regular Sears & Roebuck……“是的，先生，我就是希尔斯/罗巴克（邮购公司）。”
TWO SHORT SIREN BLASTS issue from the main tower， drawing everybody‘s attention to the loading dock. The outer gate swings open……revealing a gray prison bus outside.
两声急促的警报从主哨塔响起，所有人的注意力转向停车处。外面的大门旋开，露出一辆灰色的囚车。
RED （V.O.） 瑞德（旁白）
So when Andy Dufresne came to me in 1949 and asked me to smuggle Rita Hayworth into the prison for him， I told him no problem. And it was’t.
“所以当安迪.杜弗兰在1949年要我把丽塔.海沃斯（影星）带进监狱时，我告诉他没问题，事实证明也的确如此。”
CON某犯人
Fresh fish! Fresh fish today! “菜鸟！今天的菜鸟！”
Red is joined by HEYWOOD， SKEET， FLOYD， JIGGER， ERNIE， SNOOZE. Most cons crowd to the fence to gawk and jeer， but Red and his group mount the bleachers and settle in comfortably.
海沃德、斯基特、弗洛伊德、齐格尔、厄尼、斯诺与瑞德聚到了一起。大多数围栏边的犯人都在观看或辱骂，但瑞德他们却蹬上一边的看台，舒服地呆着。
11 INT -- PRISON BUS -- DUSK （1947） 11 内景--囚车--黄昏
Andy sits in back， wearing steel collar and chains. 安迪坐在车尾，戴着项圈和锁链。
RED （V.O.）瑞德（旁白）
Andy came to Shawshank Prison in early 1947 for murdering his wife and the fella she was bangin‘.
“安迪在1947年由于谋杀妻子及与其通奸的情夫进入肖申克监狱。”
The bus lurches forward， RUMBLES through the gates. Andy gazes around， swallowed by prison walls.
车子蹒跚前行，隆隆地驶进大门。安迪四处张望，视线被狱墙挡了回去。
RED （V.O.） 瑞德（旁白）
On the outside， he‘d been vice-president of a large Portland bank. Good work for a man as young as he was.
“在此之前，他是波特兰一家大银行的副总裁，年轻有为。”
12 INT -- SHAWSHANK PRISON -- DUSK （1947） 外景--肖申克监狱--黄昏
TOWER GUARD 哨塔守卫
All clear! “解除警报！”
GUARDS approach the bus with carbines. The door jerks open. The new fish disembark， chained together single-file， blinking sourly at their surroundings. Andy stumbles against the MAN in front of him， almost drags him down.
拿着自动步枪的守卫们走近囚车。车门猛地一下开了，新犯人链成一列，走下车子，表情阴郁，对周围视若无睹。安迪与他前面的人磕拌了一下，差点拽倒了那个人。
BYRON HADLEY， captain of the guard， slams his baton into Andy‘s back. Andy goes to his knees， gasping in pain. JEERS and SHOUTS from the spectators.
拜伦.哈雷，卫兵队长，用警棍猛击安迪的后背。安迪跪倒在地，痛苦得喘着气，围看的囚犯们连骂带笑。
HADLEY 哈雷
On your feet before I fuck you up so bad you never walk again.
“在我把你打得稀巴烂走不成路之前站起来！”
13 ON THE BLEACHERS 13 看台上
RED 瑞德
There they are， boys. The Human（q2） Charm Bracelet. “他们来了，孩子们，幸运的手链。”
HEYWOOD 海沃德
Never seen such a sorry-lookin‘ heap of maggot shit in my life.
“这辈子没见过一堆长得这么烂的人！”
JIGGER 齐格尔
Comin‘ from you， Heywood， you being so pretty and all……
“这都怪你，海沃德，你长得太漂亮了……”
FLOYD 弗洛伊德
Takin‘ bets today， Red？ “打赌吧，瑞德？”
RED 瑞德
（pulls notepad and pencil） Bear Catholic？ Pope shit in the woods？ Smokes or coin， bettor‘s choice.
（拿出笔和本）“废话少说，勿庸多言，赌烟或者赌钱，自己挑。”
FLOYD 弗洛伊德
Smokes. Put me down for two. “烟，我押两根。”
RED瑞德
High roller. Who‘s your horse？ “大买家！你押那匹马（戏指新犯为赌马）？
FLOYD 弗洛伊德
That gangly sack of shit， third from the front. He‘ll be the first.
“那个丑八怪，前面数第三个，他会是第一的。”
HEYWOOD 海沃德
Oh， bullshit. I‘ll take that action.“哦，狗屁！我跟你赌！”
ERNIE 厄尼
Me too. “好，我也赌。”
Other hands go up. Red jots the names. 其它人也跟了进来，瑞德匆匆记下名字。
HEYWOOD 海沃德
You‘re out some smokes， son. Take my word. “你等着输烟吧，孩子，记着我的话。”
FLOYD 弗洛伊德
You‘re so smart， you call it. “既然你这么聪明，你押呀！”
HEYWOOD 海沃德
I say that chubby fat-ass……let‘s see……fifth from the front. Put me down for a quarter deck.
“我押那个胖屁股，我们瞧瞧，前面数第五个，我赌五根。”

RED 瑞德
That‘s five cigarettes on Fat-Ass. Any takers？ “五根赌胖屁股，有跟进的么？”
More hands go up. Andy and the others are paraded along， forced by their chains to take tiny baby steps， flinching under the barrage of jeers and shouts. The old-timers are shaking the fence， trying to make the newcomers shit their pants. Some of the new fish shout back， but mostly they look terrified. Especially Andy.
更多的手举了起来。安迪和其它新犯列队前行，由于锁链牵制只能挪动着脚步，畏缩地走在一片辱骂和讥笑中。老囚犯们摇晃着围栏，吓唬新犯。有些新人大叫着回击，但多数人显得十分害怕，尤其是安迪。
RED （V.O.） 瑞德（旁白）
I must admit I didn‘t think much of Andy first time I laid eyes on him. He might‘a been important on the outside， but in here he was just a little turd in prison gays. Looked like a stiff breeze would blow him over. That was my first impression of the man.
“说实话，起先我刚看到安迪时感觉他并不怎么样。也许在外面是个大人物，但在这里，在监狱中，只能算个狗屁。似乎一阵大风就能把他吹倒，这就是我对他的第一印像。”
SKEET 斯基特
What say， Red？ “你赌谁，瑞德？”
RED 瑞德
Little fella on the end. Definitely. I stake half a pack. Any takers？
“队尾的那个小子，就他了。我押十根儿，有跟进的么？”
SNOOZE 斯诺
That’s a rich bet. “那可是个大赌注！”
RED 瑞德
C’mon boys， who‘s gonna prove me wrong？ （hands go up） Floyd， Jigger， Skeet， Heywood…… Four brave souls， ten smokes apiece. That‘s it， gentlemen， this window‘s closed.
“来呀，孩子们，谁来证明我的错误？（众人举手）弗洛伊德，齐格尔，斯基特，海沃德，四个勇敢的人，每人十根。就这样，先生们，停止下注。”
Red pockets his notepad. A VOICE comes over the P.A. speakers:
瑞德收起本子。监狱的喇叭传来喊话。
VOICE （amplified） 人声（经过扬声器的）
Return to your cellblocks for evening count. “返回牢房，例行点名。”
14 INT -- ADMITTING AREA -- DUSK （1947） 14内景--通道―傍晚
The new fish are marched in. Guards unlock the shackles. Thechains drop away， rattling to the stone floor.
新犯人排着队走了进来，守卫们解开镣铐，锁链叮叮铛铛的掉在石头地板上。
HADLEY 哈雷
Eyes front. “向前看！”
WARDEN SAMUEL NORTON strolls forth， a colorless man in a gray suit and a church pin in his lapel. He looks like he could piss ice water. He appraises the newcomers with flinty eyes.
监狱长塞缪.诺顿踱步上前，面无表情，一身灰色的西装，衣领上别着枚教徽。他看起来冷若冰霜，用冷酷的眼神打量着新犯。
NORTON诺顿
This is Mr. Hadley， captain of the guard. I am Mr. Norton， the warden. You are sinners and scum， that‘s why they sent you to me. Rule number one: no blaspheming. I‘ll not have the Lord‘s name taken in vain in my prison. The other rules you‘ll figure out as you go along. Any questions？
“这是哈雷先生，守卫队长。我是诺顿先生，这里的典狱长。你们都是无赖和人渣，这就是你们被送到我这里的原因。规则一：不得亵渎神灵。我不会允许主的名字在我的监狱里得到不敬。其它的规则，你们以后就知道了。还有问题么？”
CON犯人
When do we eat？ “我们什么时候吃饭？”
Cued by Norton‘s glance， Hadley steps up to the con and screams right in his face:
诺顿看了哈雷一眼，哈雷走到那个犯人跟前，冲着他的脸吼叫：
HADLEY哈雷
YOU EAT WHEN WE SAY YOU EAT! YOU PISS WHEN WE SAY YOU PISS! YOU SHIT WHEN WE SAY YOU SHIT! YOU SLEEP WHEN WE SAY YOU SLEEP! YOU MAGGOT-DICK MOTHER- FUCKER!
“叫你吃你就吃！叫你尿你就尿！叫你拉你就拉！叫你睡你就睡！操你妈的混帐王八蛋！”
Hadley rams the tip of his club into the con‘s belly. The man falls to his knees， gasping and clutching himself. Hadley takes his place at Norton‘s side again. Softly:
哈雷用警棍猛地捅了一下犯人的肚子。犯人跪倒在地，紧紧捂住肚子。哈雷返回他的位置，温和的站在诺顿身旁。
NORTON 诺顿
Any another qutions？（there are none）I believe in two things. Discipline and the Bible. Here， you‘ll receive both. （holds up a Bible） Put your faith in the Lord. Your ass belongs to me. Welcome to Shawshank.
“还有别的问题么？（无人回答）我相信两件事：纪律和圣经。在这儿，你们都会收到的。（扬起手中的圣经）把信仰交给上帝，你们这身贱肉归我。欢迎来到肖申克。”
HADLEY哈雷
Off with them clothes! And I didn‘t say take all day doing it， did I？
“脱掉衣服！都给我快点儿，好吗？”
The men shed their clothes. Within seconds， all stand naked.
犯人们脱掉衣服，不一会儿，众人全身赤裸。
Hadley 哈雷
First man into the shower! “第一个人进去沐浴！”
Hadley shoves the FIRST CON into a steel cage open at the front. TWO GUARDS open up with a fire hose. The con is slammed against the back of the cage， sputtering and hollering. Seconds later， the water is cut and the con yanked out.
哈雷把第一个犯人推进一个前面开着口的铁笼子。两个守卫打开消防水龙，犯人站在笼子的后部被水猛烈地冲着，水花四溅。几秒钟后，水龙关掉，犯人被拽出。
HADLEY 哈雷
Delouse that piece of shit! Next man in! “给这个混蛋消毒，下一个人！”
The con gets a huge scoop of white delousing powder thrown all over him. Gasping and coughing， blinking powder from his eyes. he gets shoved to a trustee‘s cage. The TRUSTEE slides a short
stack of items through the slot -- prison clothes and a Bible. All the men are processed quickly -- a blast of water， powder， clothes and a Bible……
一大勺白色去虱粉洒在犯人身上，犯人咳嗽着、喘着，揉着眼中的粉未。接着被推搡到领物处，保管人员把一叠东西扔到递口处 -- 犯人的衣服和一本圣经。每个人都被处理的很快 -- 喷水、扑粉、衣服和圣经。
15 INT -- INFIRMARY -- NIGHT （1947） 15 内景--医务所--夜晚
A naked CON steps before a DOCTOR and gets a cursory exam. A penlight is shined in his eyes， ears， nose， and throat.
全裸的犯人走到医生前草草进行地检查，用小电筒照眼睛、耳朵、鼻子和喉咙。
DOCTOR医生
Bend over. “弯腰。”
The con does. A GUARD with a penlight in his teeth spreads his cheeks， peers up his ass， and nods. Andy is next up. He gets the same treatment.
犯人弯下腰。一个守卫咬着小电筒，捌开他的屁股，检视肛门，点头通过。安迪是下一个，也被如泡制。
16 INT -- PRISON CHAPEL -- NIGHT （1947） 16 内景--监狱教堂--夜晚
CAMERA TRACKS the naked newcomers shivering on hard wooden chairs， clothes on their laps， Bibles open.
镜头跟着赤裸的新犯，他们坐在坚硬的木椅上发抖，衣服搁在膝盖，圣经翻开。
CHAPLAIN （O.S.）牧师
……maketh me to lie down in green pastures. He leadeth me beside the still waters. He restoreth my soul……
“……使我们躺在绿色的草原。他把我们带到静水边，他重建了我们的灵魂……”
17 INT -- CELLBLOCK FIVE -- NIGHT （1947） 17内景--五号囚楼--夜晚
Three tiers to a side， concrete and steel， gray and imposing. Andy and the others are marched in， still naked， carrying their clothes and Bibles. The CONS in their cells greet them with TAUNTS， JEERS， and LAUGHTER. One by one， the new men are shown to their cells and locked in with a CLANG OF STEEL.
一边三层，钢筋和混凝土建造，灰色而压抑。安迪和其它的人仍然光着身子，拿着衣服和圣经，排着队走进来。囚房里的犯人们冲着他们谩骂、讥讽和嘲笑。一个接一个的，随着铁门的咣铛声，新犯们被关进各自的号房。
RED （V.O.）瑞德（旁白）
The first night‘s the toughest， no doubt about it. They march you in naked as the day you‘re born， fresh from a Bible reading， skin burning and half-blind from that delousing shit they throw on you……
“第一个晚上最难熬，毫无疑问。他们让你像刚出生时那样赤裸着在地上走，去听圣经，洒在身上的劣制去虱粉，烧灼着眼睛和皮肤，令你半盲。”
Red watches from his cell， arms slung over the crossbars， cigarette dangling from his fingers.
瑞德在他的号房里向外看着，手臂支在门栓上，手里摆弄着香烟。
RED （V.O.） 瑞德（旁白）
……and when they put you in that cell， those bars slam home， that‘s when you know it‘s for real. Old life blown away in the blink of an eye…… a long cold season in hell stretching out ahead……nothing left but all the time in the world to think about it.
“当你被扔进牢房，铁栏把回家的大门砰的关住，此时你会知道，这就是现实。过去的生活转眼间消失……地狱中的漫长的寒季向你走来……周围的一切都离你而去，只剩下无尽的时间来思考。”
Red listens to the CLANGING below. He watches Andy and a few others being brought up to the 2nd tier. 瑞德听着下面的咣啷声，注视着安迪和其它几个人被带到二层。
RED （V.O.） 瑞德（旁白）
Most new fish come close to madness the first night. Somebody always breaks down crying. Happens every time. The only question is， who‘s it gonna be？
“很多新进的犯人在第一个晚上简直都要发疯，有些会禁不住大哭起来，毫无例外。唯一的问题就是，谁会是第一个？”

Andy is led past and given a cell at the end of the tier. 安迪被领过去分到了这层最头的一间。
RED （V.O.） 瑞德（旁白）
It‘s as good a thing to bet on as any， I guess. I had my money on Andy Dufresne……
“我想这是用来打赌的最好的方式，我把宝押到了安迪.杜弗兰的身上。”
18 INT -- ANDY‘S CELL -- NIGHT （1947） 18内景--安迪的号房--夜晚
The bars slam home. Andy is alone in his cell， clutching his clothes. He gazes around at his new surroundings， taking it in. He slowly begins to dress himself……
铁栏砰的关上，安迪一人在牢房里，手中抓着衣服，环顾四周，想适应这陌生的环境。他慢慢地穿起了衣服。
19 EXT -- SHAWSHANK PRISON -- NIGHT （1947） 19 外景--肖申克监狱--夜晚
A malignant stone growth on the Maine landscape. The moon hangs low and baleful in a dead sky. The headlight of a PASSING TRAIN cuts through the night.
缅因州的大地上长着一块邪恶的石头，不祥的月亮在死寂般的天空中低垂着，一列疾驶的火车亮着前灯穿过黑夜。
20 INT -- RED‘S CELL -- NIGHT （1947） 20内景--瑞德的号房--夜晚
Red lies on his bunk below us， tossing his baseball toward the ceiling and catching it again. He pauses， listening. FOOTSTEPS approach below， unhurried， echoing hollowly on stone.
瑞德躺在他的铺位上，把手中的棒球抛向天花板再接住。他停了下来，倾听楼下那不慌不忙的脚步声在地上回荡。
21 INT -- CELLBLOCK FIVE -- NIGHT （1947） 21内景--五号囚楼--夜晚
LOW ANGLE. A CELLBLOCK GUARD strolls into frame.
低角镜头。一个监狱守卫漫步进入画面。
GUARD守卫
That‘s lights out! Good night， ladies. “熄灯！晚安，女士们！”
The lights bump off in sequence. The guard exits， footsteps echoing away. Darkness now. Silence. CAMERA CRANES UP the tiers toward Red‘s cell.
灯一盏接一盏的灭掉，守卫走了，脚步声慢慢地消失。一片黑暗，镜头上升冲着瑞德的号房。
RED （V.O.） 瑞德（旁白）
I remember my first night. Seems like a long time ago .
“我记得我的第一个晚上，似乎已经是很久的事情了。”
Red looms from the darkness， leans on the bars. Listens. Waits. From somewhere below comes faint， ghastly tittering. VOICES drift through the cellblock， taunting:
瑞德在黑暗中隐现出来，斜靠在铁栏上，倾听、等待。某处传来模糊的、恐怖的吃吃的笑声，在囚楼中漂动。
VARIOUS VOICES （O.S.） 各种人声
Fishee fishee fisheeee……You‘re gonna like it here， new fish. A whooole lot……Make you wish your daddies never dicked your mommies……You takin‘ this down， new fish？ Gonna be a quiz later. （somebody LAUGHS） Sshhh. Keep it down. The screws‘ll hear……Fishee fishee fisheeee……
“新来的、新来的、新来的……你会喜欢这儿的，菜鸟，所有的……会让你希望你爸从未干过你妈……你拿下来了，菜鸟？你会变成怪人的。（有人讥笑）嘘，安静。狱卒会听到的……新来的、新来的、新来的……
RED （V.O.）瑞德（旁白）
The boys always go fishin‘ with first-timers……and they don‘t quit till they reel someone in.
“那些人总是做弄第一次进来的人……直到某个新人被戏弄成功。”
The VOICES keep on， sly and creepy in the dark…… 声音继续，在黑暗中显得阴森、恐怖。
22 INT -- VARIOUS CELLS -- NIGHT （1947） 22 内景�C各个牢房�C 夜晚
thru thru 25 26 ……while the new cons go quietly crazy in their cells. One man paces like a caged animal……another sits gnawing his cuticles bloody……a third is weeping silently……a fourth is dry-heaving into the toilet……
镜头扫过25、26……新犯们慢慢地接近疯狂。有一个像笼子里的动物走来走去……另一个坐在那儿把手指啃得鲜血淋漓……第三个在静静地哭泣……第四个趴在马桶边干呕……
26 INT -- RED‘S CELL -- NIGHT （1947） 26 内景�C 瑞德的号房�C夜晚
Red waits at the bars. Smoking. Listening. He cranes his head， peers down toward Andy‘s cell. Nothing. Not a peep.
瑞德在铁栏那儿等着，抽着烟，倾听着。他探起头向下朝安迪的号房看去，无声无息。
HEYWOOD （O.S.） 海沃德
Fat-Ass……Faaaat-Ass. Talk to me， boy. I know you‘re in there. I can hear you breathin‘. Now don‘t you listen to these nitwits， here？
“胖屁股！胖屁股！说话呀，小子。我知道你在那儿，我听到你的呼吸了。你没听到那些傻瓜么，你在听吗？
27 INT -- FAT-ASS‘ CELL -- NIGHT （1947） 27 内景�C胖子的号房�C夜晚
Fat-Ass is crying， trying not to hyperventilate. 胖子正在哭，他试图抑止住抽泣。
HEYWOOD （O.S.） 海沃德
This place ain‘t so bad. Tell you what…I‘ll introduce you around， make you feel right at home. I know a couple of big old bull queers just love to make your acquaintance……especially that big white mushy butt of yours……
“这地方并不太坏。告诉你……我会给你介绍这里的，让你感觉和在家一样。我知道有几个壮得像公牛一样的老鸡奸犯正想认识你呢……尤其是你那又白又嫩的大屁股……”
And that‘s it. Fat-Ass lets out a LOUD WAIL of despair:
终于，胖子发出绝望的哀号。
FAT-ASS胖子
GOD! I DON‘T BELONG HERE! I WANNA GO HOME! “上帝！我不属于这儿！我要回家！”
28 INT -- HEYWOOD‘S CELL -- NIGHT （1947） 28 内景--海沃德的号房--夜晚
HEYWOOD 海沃德
AND IT‘S FAT-ASS BY A NOSE.‘ “胖屁股抢先一步！”
29 INT -- CELLBLOCK -- NIGHT （1947） 29内景--囚楼--夜晚
The place goes nuts. Fat-Ass throws himself screaming against the bars. The entire block starts CHANTING:
四周变得狂乱起来。胖子趴在铁栏上哭喊，整个囚楼的人开始有节奏的重复着喊着：
VOICES 人声
Fresh fish……fresh fish……fresh fish……fresh fish…… “菜鸟……菜鸟……菜鸟……”
FAT-ASS胖子
I WANNA GO HOME! I WANT MY MOTHER.“我要回家，我想找我妈妈！”
VOICE （O.S.） 人声
I had your mother! She wasn‘t that great! “我找过你妈妈，她不怎么样！”
The lights bump on. GUARDS pour in， led by Hadley himself.
灯光突然亮起，哈雷领着守卫们涌进。
HADLEY 哈雷
What the Christ is this happy shit？ “这帮天杀的瞎叫什么呢！”
VOICE （O.S.） 人声
He took the Lord‘s name in vain! I‘m tellin‘ the warden! “他对神不敬，我要告诉狱长！”
HADLEY 哈雷
（to the unseen wit） （冲着黑暗中的犯人）You‘ll be tellin‘ him with my baton up your ass!
“屁股上插着我的警棍告诉他吧！”
Hadley arrives at Fat-Ass‘ cell， bellowing through the bars:
哈雷来到胖子的号房，隔着铁栏大吼：
HADLEY哈雷
What‘s your malfunction you fat fuckin‘ barrel of monkey-spunk？
“犯什么病了，你个傻逼大肥桶？”
FAT-ASS 胖子
PLEASE! THIS AIN‘T RIGHT! I AIN‘ T SUPPOSED TO BE HERE! NOT ME!
“求你！不是这样！我不该在这儿的！不该我！”
HADLEY哈雷
I ain‘t gonna count to three! Not even to one! Now shut the fuck up before I sing you a lullaby!
“我可不会数到三！我连一都不数！你要是不他妈的闭嘴，我就送你回老家！”
Fat-Ass keeps blubbering and wailing. Total freak-out. Hadley draws his baton， gestures to his men. Open it.
胖子依然嚎哭，完全失去控制。哈雷抽出警棍，示意手下把门打开。
A GUARD unlocks the cell. Hadley pulls Fat-Ass out and starts beating him with the baton， and cursing ‘son of a bitch’ from his mouth， brutally raining blows. Fat-Ass falls， tries to crawl.
一个守卫打开牢房，哈雷拖出胖子用警棍击打，嘴里咒骂着“狗娘养的”，棍如雨下。胖子倒在地上，试图爬行。

The place goes dead silent. All we hear now is the dull THWACK-THWACK-THWACK of the baton. Fat-ass passes out. Hadley gets in a few more licks and finally stops.
四周渐成死寂，所有能听到的声音就是那警棍闷声地发出嘭―嘭―嘭的重击。胖子昏了过去，哈雷又打了几下才最终停了下来。
HADLEY哈雷
（peers around） Get this tub of shit down to the infirmary. If I hear so much as a mouse fart in here the rest of the night， by God and Sonny Jesus， you‘ll all visit the infirmary. Every last motherfucker here.
（巡视四周）“把这坨肥屎弄到医务所。今天晚上，如果我再听到有耗子放屁大点儿的动静，我对上帝和耶稣发誓，你们所有的人都会住院的！这儿的每一个王八蛋！”
The guards wrestle Fat-Ass onto a stretcher and carry him off. FOOTSTEPS echo away. Lights off. Darkness again. Silence.
守卫们把胖子费力地挪到担架上抬走了。脚步声回荡，灯光熄灭，黑暗再临，一片宁寂。
30 INT -- RED‘S CELL -- NIGHT （1947） 30 内景--瑞德的号房--夜晚
Red stares through the bars at the main floor below， eyes riveted to the small puddle of blood where Fat-Ass went down.
瑞德透过铁栏望着楼下的地板，眼睛死死的盯住胖子倒地处的那滩鲜血。
RED （V.O.） 瑞德（旁白）
His first night in the joint， Andy Dufresne cost me two packs of cigarettes. He never made a sound……
“安迪.杜弗兰入狱的头一个晚上，就让我输了两包烟。他，始终一言未发。”
31 INT -- CELLBLOCK FIVE -- MORNING （1947） 31内景--五号囚楼--早晨
LOUD BUZZER. The master locks are thrown -- KA-THUMP! The cons step from their cells， lining the tiers. The GUARDS holler their head-counts to the HEAD BULL， who jots on a clipboard. Red peers at Andy， checking him out. Andy stands in line， collar buttoned， hair combed.
蜂鸣器大声作响，囚楼的中控锁被打开。囚犯们走出他们的号房，在楼层上排成行。守卫们大声喊出人头数，卫兵头则匆匆记在登记册上。
32 INT -- MESS HALL -- MORNING （1947） 32 内景--食堂--早晨
Andy goes through the breakfast line， gets a scoop of glop on his tray. WE PAN ANDY through the noise and confusion……and discover BOGS DIAMOND and ROOSTER MacBRIDE watching Andy go by. Bogs sizes Andy up with a salacious gleam in his eye， mutters something to Rooster. Rooster laughs.
安迪走过早餐台，托盘里得到了一勺糊糊状的食品。镜头跟着安迪穿过那片噪音和混乱……映出伯格斯.戴蒙德与鲁斯特.麦克布莱德，他们看着安迪走了过去。伯格斯露出色情的目光打量着安迪，并小声跟鲁斯特说了句什么，鲁斯特笑了起来。
Andy finds a table occupied by Red and his regulars， chooses a spot at the end where nobody is sitting. Ignoring their stares， he picks up his spoon -- and pauses， seeing something in his food. He carefully fishes it out with his fingers. 安迪找到了一张瑞德和他的那伙人占着的桌子，他走到桌一头，选了个没人的地儿坐下，毫不在意他们的目光，拿起了勺子--他停了下来，看着食物里的东西，小心的用手指把它捏出。
It‘s a squirming maggot. Andy grimaces， unsure what to do with it. BROOKS HATLEN is sitting closest to Andy. At age 65， he‘s a senior citizen， a long-standing resident.一条蠕动着的蛆虫！安迪一脸苦相，不知该怎么办。布鲁克斯.海特伦离安迪最近，他65岁，一个老年人，长期服役者。
BROOKS布鲁克斯
You gonna eat that？ “你要吃么？”
ANDY安迪
Hadn‘t planned on it. “没这打算。”
BROOKS 布鲁克斯
You mind？ “能给我吗？”
Andy passes the maggot to Brooks. Brooks examines it， rolling it between his fingertips like a man checking out a fine cigar. Andy is riveted with apprehension.安迪把虫子递给布鲁克斯。布鲁克斯用手指头拔弄着虫子，好像某人在审视手中的上等雪茄。安迪即疑惑又担心的紧盯着。
BROOKS布鲁克斯
Mmm. Nice and ripe. “呵呵，又肥又大。”
Andy can‘t bear to watch. Brooks opens up his sweater and feeds the maggot to a baby crow nestled in an inside pocket. Andy breathes a sigh of relief.安迪有些看不下去。布鲁克斯掀开毛衣，把虫子喂给了依偎在内兜里的一只幼小的乌鸦。安迪终于松了一口气。
BROOKS布鲁克斯
Jake says thanks. Fell out of his nest over by the plate shop. I‘m gonna look after him till he‘s big enough to fly.
“杰克说谢谢你。它从车牌厂房顶的巢中掉了下来，我要照料它长大到能飞为止。”
Andy nods， proceeds to eat. Carefully. Heywood approaches.
安迪点点头，小心翼翼地开始吃饭。海沃德过来了。
JIGGER 齐格尔
Oh， Chirst， here he comes. “哦，天呢，他来了！”
HEYWOOD海沃德
Mornin‘， boys. It’s a fine mornin‘. You know why it‘s fine？
“早晨好，伙计们！很爽的早晨，你们知道为什么这么爽吧？”
Heywood plops his tray down， sits. The men start pulling out cigarettes and handing them down.
海沃德砰地一声撂下盘子，坐了下来。大家纷纷掏出香烟，放到桌子上。
HEYWOOD海沃德
That’s right， send ‘em all down. I wanna see ‘em lined up in a row， pretty as a chorus line.
“很好，把它们都放下。我要把所有的香烟排成一排，就像一个合唱队。”
An impressive pile forms. Heywood bends down and inhales deeply， smelling the aroma. Rapture.
香烟排成一列，海沃德低下头使劲地闻着香烟的气味，高兴不已。
FLOYD 佛洛伊德
Smell my ass…… “闻我的屁股吧……”
HEYWOOD 海沃德
Gee， Red. That’s a terrible shame about your horse comin‘ in last and all. Hell， I sure do love that horse of mine. I believe I owe that boy a great big sloppy kiss when I see him.
“哎呀，瑞德。你的马竟落到了后面，真丢人呢！妈的，我爱死我的马啦！见到他之后，我非得狠狠地亲他一大口！
RED瑞德
Give him some of your cigarettes instead， cheap bastard. “还是把你的烟给他吧，贱骨头。”
HEYWOOD海沃德
Hey Tyrell， you pull infirmary duty this week. How‘s that horse of mine doing anyway？
“嗨，泰瑞尔！这周你在医务所候勤，我的马怎么样啦？”
TYRELL泰瑞尔
Dead. （the men fall silent） Hadley busted his head pretty good. Doc’d already gone home for the night. Poor bastard lay there till this morning. By then…
“死了。（大家静了下来）哈雷把他的头打的稀巴烂，医生晚上也回家了。可怜的家伙一直躺到早晨，那时已经……
He shakes his head， turns back to his food. The silence mounts. Heywood glances around. Men resume eating.
他摇摇头，接着吃东西。气氛越来越静，海沃德四周环视，大伙都接着吃起饭来。
ANDY Softly: 安迪轻轻地问：
What was his name？ “他叫什么名字？”
HEYWOOD 海沃德
What the fuck do you care， new fish？ （resumes eating） Doesn‘t fucking matter what his name was. He‘s dead.
“关你屁事！菜鸟！（继续吃饭）知道他叫什么有屁用！他已经死了！”
33 INT -- PRISON LAUNDRY -- DAY （1947） 33 内景--监狱洗衣房--白天
A DEAFENING NOISE of industrial washers and presses. Andy works the laundry line. A nightmarish job. He‘s new at it. BOB， the con foreman， elbows him aside and shows him how it‘s done.
洗涤机和熨烫机发出震耳欲聋的噪音。安迪工作在流水线上，一份极糟的工作，他是新手。鲍勃，犯人头，把他挤到一边，给他做示范。
34 INT -- SHOWERS -- DAY （1947） 34内景--淋浴间--白天
Andy showers with a dozen or more men. No modesty here. At least the water is good and hot， soothing his tortured muscles. Bogs looms from the billowing steam， smiling， checking Andy up and down. Rooster and PETE appear from the sides. The Sisters.
安迪与十几个犯人在淋浴，这里可没有体面，但幸好水还很热，可以安抚他疲惫的肌肉。伯格斯从翻滚的蒸汽中走出，微笑着，上下打量着安迪。鲁斯特和皮特也出现在两边--三姐妹。
BOGS 伯格斯
You‘re some sweet punk. You been broke in yet？
“你还很嫩呀，有人弄过你么？”
Andy tries to step past them. He gets shoved around， nothing serious， just some slap and tickle. Jackals sizing up prey. Andy breaks free， flushed and shaking. He hurries off， leaving the three Sisters laughing.
安迪试着躲开他们，色狼们与他轻轻的碰撞，打量着他们的猎物。安迪羞涩地左闪右躲，赶紧走开，留下嘲笑他的三姐妹。
BOGS 伯格斯
Hard to get. I like that. 难上手，我喜欢。
35 INT -- ANDY‘S CELL -- NIGHT （1947） 35 内景--安迪的号房--夜晚
Andy lies staring at the darkness， unable to sleep. 安迪躺在床上，盯着黑暗，不能入睡。

36 EXT -- EXERCISE YARD -- DAY （1947） 36外景--操场--白天
Exercise period. Red plays catch with Heywood and Jigger， lazily tossing a baseball around. Red notices Andy off to the side. Nods hello. Andy takes this as a cue to amble over. Heywood and Jigger pause， watching.
放风时间。瑞德与海沃德和齐格尔在玩抛接球，他懒洋洋地投着球，看见安迪走到旁边，对他点头示意。接着缓步走上前来，海沃德和齐格停下来，看着。
ANDY 安迪
（offers his hand） I‘m Andy Dufresne.（伸出手）“我是安迪.杜弗兰。”
Red glances at the hand， ignores it. The game continues. 瑞德看看他的手，没有理会，继续游戏。
RED瑞德
The wife-killin‘ banker. “杀妻银行家？”
ANDY安迪
How do you know that？ “你怎么知道？”
RED瑞德
I keep my ear to the ground. Why‘d you do it？ “我关注任何风吹草动，为什么杀她？”
ANDY 安迪
I didn‘t， since you ask. “既然你问了我就告诉你，我没杀她。”
RED瑞德
Ha， you’re going fit right in. （off Andy‘s look） Everybody in here’s innocent， don‘t you know that？ Heywood! What you are in for？ “哈！你适应的很快。（扭过脸问海沃德）这里每个人都是无辜的，你不知道么？海沃德！你为何入狱？
HEYWOOD 海沃德
Didn’t do it. Lawyer fucked me! “我没罪，律师坑了我！”
Red gives Andy a look. See？ 瑞德给了安迪一个表情，看到了吗？
ANDY安迪
What else have you heard？ “还听说什么了？”
RED瑞德
People say it you‘re a cold fish. Thay say you think your shit smells sweeter than most. That right？
“人们都说你是一个冷血动物，还觉得自己比谁都尿得高。是吗？”
ANDY安迪
What do you think？ “那你认为呢？”
RED 瑞德
Havn‘t made up my mind. “我还没看出来。”
Heywood nudges Jigger. Watch this. He winds up and throws the ball hard -- right at Andy‘s head. Andy sees it coming out of the corner of his eye， whirls and catches it. Beat. He sends the ball right back， zinging it into Heywood‘s hands. Heywood drops the ball and grimaces， wringing his stung hands.
海沃德碰了一下齐格尔：看这个。他抓紧垒球使劲投了出去--直奔安迪的头部。安迪从眼角看到球飞了过来，猛得转身抓住了它。然后立刻把球投了回去，球呼啸着掷进了海沃德的手中。海沃德扔下球，一脸苦相，紧握着被击痛的手。
ANDY 安迪
I understand you‘re a man who knows how to get things. “我知道你是个能弄到东西的人。”
RED 瑞德
I‘m known to locate certain things from time to time. They seem to fall into my hands. Maybe it‘s ‘cause I‘m Irish.
“我常知道从哪儿能找到东西，似乎是自动掉到我手里的，也许因为我是个爱尔兰人吧。”
ANDY 安迪
I wonder if you might get me a rock-hammer？ “你能弄把石锤吗？”
RED 瑞德
What is it and why？ “什么石锤？做什么用？”
ANDY 安迪
You make your customers‘ motives a part of your business？
“客户的购买目的也是你业务的一部份么？”
RED 瑞德
If you wanted a toothbrush， I would not ask questions. I‘d just quote a price. A toothbrush， see， is a non-lethal object.
“如果你要把牙刷，我就不会问你，而直接说价钱。必竟牙刷没什么杀伤力。”
ANDY 安迪
Fair enough. A rock-hammer is about six or seven inches long. Looks like a miniature pickaxe， with a small sharp pick on one end， and a blunt hammerhead on the other. It‘s for rocks.
“算公平。一把石锤，大约六到七英寸长，看起来就像一把微型的铁镐，一端是尖的，另一端是个锤头，用来凿岩石。”
RED 瑞德
Rocks. “岩石？”
Andy squats， motions Red to join him. Andy grabs a handful of dirt and sifts it through his hands. He finds a pebble and rubs it clean. It has a nice milky glow. He tosses it to Red.
安迪蹲下来，瑞德跟着蹲了下去。安迪抓起一把土，在手中拔拉。他找到一块硅石，擦干净，硅石发出乳白色的光芒。他把它扔给瑞德。
RED 瑞德
Quartz？ “石英？”
ANDY安迪
Quartz， sure. And look. Mica. Shale. Silted granite. There‘s some graded limestone， from when they cut this place（q5） out of the hill.
“没错，是石英。加上云母、页岩、沉积岩，还有一些分级石灰石，”
RED瑞德
So？ “做什么？”
ANDY 安迪
So I‘m a rock hound. At least I was， in my old life. I‘d like to be again， on a limited basis.
“我是一个石头迷，至少原来是这样。我想找回一些过去的感觉。”
RED 瑞德
Or maybe you‘d like to sink your toy into somebody‘s skull.
“或许你想把你的玩具敲到别人的脑袋里去吧？”
ANDY安迪
No， sir. I have no enemies here. “不，先生，我这里没有仇敌。”
RED 瑞德
No？ Wait a while. “没有？等一下。”
Red flicks his gaze past Andy. Bogs is watching them.
瑞德向安迪身后望去。伯格斯正看着他们。
RED 瑞德
Word gets around. The Sisters have taken quite a liking to you. Especially Bogs.
“话可传开了，三姐妹可喜欢你了！尤其是伯格斯。”
ANDY安迪
Don‘t suppose it would help if I explained them I‘m not homosexual.
“如果我给他们解释我可不是同性恋总该有用吧？”
RED瑞德
Neither are they. They have to be human first. They don‘t qualify. Bull queers take by force. That‘s all they want or understand. If I were you， I‘d grow eyes in the back of my head.
“他们又哪儿是啦！同性恋首先也得是人，他们连人都不是。这些蛮牛鸡奸犯们使用暴力，他们只会那样想和理解。如果我是你，脑袋后面得多长一只眼睛。”
ANDY安迪
Thanks for the advice. “谢谢提醒。”
RED 瑞德
That’s free. You understand my concern. “这是免费的。你知道我担心什么。”

ANDY安迪
If there‘s any trouble， I won‘t use the rock-hammer. OK？
“就算有麻烦，我也不会用石锤的。好吗？”
RED瑞德
Then I guess you wanna escape. Tunnel under the wall maybe？ （Andy laughs politely） I miss something of you. What‘s the funny？
“那我猜你是想逃狱，也许会在墙底挖地道？（安迪轻轻地笑了笑）我不明白，有什么好笑的？”
ANDY安迪
You‘ll understand when you see the rock-hammer. “你见到石锤时，就会明白了。”
RED瑞德
What‘s an item like this usually go for？ “这种东西通常多少钱？”
ANDY安迪
Seven dollars in any rock and gem shop.“在玉石店卖七美元。”
RED瑞德
My normal mark-up‘s twenty percent， but this is a specialty item. Risk goes up， price goes up. Let‘s make it an even 1 0 bucks.“通常我加20%，但这是个特殊的东西。风险大，价格高。公道价，十美元。”
ANDY安迪
Ten it is. “十元就十元。”
RED瑞德
（rises， slapping dust）（站起来，拍拍手中的土）
Waste of money， if you ask me. “如果你问我，我就会告诉你，那是白花钱。”
ANDY安迪
Why‘s that？“为什么？”
RED瑞德
Folks around this joint love surprise inspections. They‘ll find it， you‘re going to lose it. If they do catch you with it， you don‘t know me. You mention my name， we‘ll never do business again. Up for shoelaces or a stick of gum. Now you got that？
“这所监狱的人喜欢突击搜查，他们会发现并没收的。如果真得抓住你，你可不认识我。你要提到我的名字的话，就再也别想从我这儿买到东西，连鞋带和口香糖都别想！你现在明白了吗？”
ANDY 安迪
I understand. Thank you， Mr……？ “我明白。谢谢你……”
RED瑞德
Red. Name‘s Red. “瑞德，我叫瑞德。”
ANDY安迪
Red. I’m Andy. Pleasure doing business with you. “瑞德，我叫安迪。很高兴与你合作。”
They shake. Andy strolls off. Red watches him go.
他们握握手，安迪漫步走开，瑞德看着他离开。
RED （V.O.）瑞德（旁白）
I could see why some of the boys took him for snobby. He had a quiet way about him， a walk and talk that just wasn‘t normal around here. He strolled like a man in a park without a care or worry in the world. Like he had on an invisible coat that would shield him from this place. （resumes playing catch） Yeah， I think it would be fair to say I liked Andy from the start.
“我知道为什么有人觉得他自命不凡了。他很从容的做事情，走路、说话都与众不同。他就像一个无忧无虑的在公园闲逛的人，如同穿着一件可以保护他的隐身衣。（继续玩投球）是的，说实话我一开始就喜欢上了安迪。”
37 INT -- MESS HALL -- DAY （1947） 37内景--食堂--白天
Red gets his breakfast and heads for a table. Andy falls in step， slips him a tightly-folded square of paper.
瑞德拿到早餐走向一张桌子，安迪跟在后面，塞给他一个叠得很紧的纸包。
38 INT -- RED‘S CELL -- NIGHT （1947） 38内景--瑞德的号房--夜晚
Lying on his bunk， Red unfolds the square. A ten dollar bill.
瑞德躺在他的铺上打开纸包，一张十美元的钞票。
39 EXT -- LOADING DOCK -- DAY （1947） 39外景--装卸处--白天
Under watchful supervision， CONS are off-loading bags of dirty laundry from an "Eliot Nursing Home" truck.
在严密的监管下，犯人们正在从一辆标有“埃利奥特疗养院”的卡车上卸下装着脏衣物的袋子。
RED （V.O.） 瑞德（旁白）
Years later， I found out he‘d brought in quite a bit more than just ten dollars……
“若干年后，我发现他这十美元花得可真值……”
A certain bag hits the ground. The TRUCK DRIVER shoots a look at a black con， LEONARD， then ambles over to a GUARD to shoot the shit. Leonard loads the bag onto a cart……
一个特殊的袋子落在地上，卡车司机对一个黑人囚犯--兰纳德使了个眼色，然后溜达到守卫跟前闲聊起来。兰纳德则将袋子装入一辆手推车。
40 INT -- PRISON LAUNDRY -- DAY （1947） 40内景--监狱洗衣房--白天
Bags are being unloaded. We find Leonard working the line. 袋子被卸下来，兰纳德正在工作。
RED （V.O.）瑞德（旁白）
When they check you into this hotel， one of the bellhops bends you over and looks up your works， just to make sure you‘re not carrying anything. But a truly determined man can get an object quite a ways up there.
“当他们让你进入旅馆（指监狱）时，其中某个侍者（指守卫）会贴身检查，以确定不能夹带任何东西。但一个坚持原则的人还是有办法的。”
Leonard slips a small paper-wrapped package out of the laundry bag， hides it under his apron， and keeps sorting……
兰纳德偷偷地从装着脏衣物的袋子里拿出一个纸裹着的包，藏到了他的围裙下面，然后继续分捡衣物。
4l INT -- PRISON LAUNDRY EXCHANGE -- DAY 内景--洗衣房换领处--白天
Red deposits his dirty bundle and moves down the line to where the clean sheets are being handed out. Leonard catches Red‘s eye， turns and grabs a specific stack of clean sheets. He hands it across to Red --瑞德放下他的脏包袱，走入领干净床单的队伍。兰纳德对瑞德使了个眼色，转身抓起一叠干净的床单，递给瑞德。
TIGHT ANGLE 镜头拉长
-- and more than clean laundry changes hands. Two packs of cigarettes slide out of Red‘s hand into Leonard‘s.
随着更多的衣物交换，两包烟也偷偷的从瑞德的手中转到了兰纳德的手里。
42 INT -- RED‘S CELL -- DAY （1947） 42内景--瑞德的号房--白天
Red slips the package out of his sheets， carefully checks to make sure nobody‘s coming， then rips it open. He pulls out the rock-hammer. It‘s just as Andy described. Red laughs softly.
瑞德偷偷的从床单中拿出纸包，小心的观察是否有人过来，然后撕开纸包，取出石锤。石锤正如安迪所描述的那样，瑞德微微地笑了起来。
RED （V.O.） 瑞德（旁白）
Andy was right. I finally got the joke. It would take a man about six hundred years to tunnel under the wall with one of these.
“安迪是对的，我终于明白他为什么发笑了。如果用这种石锤挖在墙下挖隧道，会让一个人挖上六百年！”
43 INT -- CELLBLOCK FIVE -- 2ND TIER -- NIGHT 内景--五号囚楼2层--夜晚
Brooks Hatlen pushes a cart of books from cell to cell. The rolling library. He finds Red waiting for him. Red slips the rock-hammer， wrapped in a towel， through the bars and onto the cart. Next comes six cigarettes to pay for postage.
布鲁克斯.哈特伦推着放书的小车一个牢房一个牢房的走―移动图书馆。他看到瑞德正等着他。瑞德把裹在毛巾里的石锤通过栅栏塞进小车，并递出六根烟作为运送的酬劳。
RED瑞德
Dufresne. “杜弗兰。”
Brooks nods， never missing a beat. He rolls his cart to Andy‘s cell， mutters through the bars:
布鲁克斯点点头，十分从容。他把车推到安迪的号房前，小声的说：
BROOKS 布鲁克斯
Middle shelf， wrapped in a towel. “中间那层，毛巾裹着的。”
Andy‘s hand snakes through the bars and makes the object disappear. The hand comes back and deposits a small slip of folded paper along with more cigarettes. Brooks turns his cart around and goes back. He pauses， sorting his books long enough for Red to snag the slip of paper. Brooks continues on， scooping the cigarettes off the cart and into his pocket.
安迪从栅栏中探出手，把东西拿走。然后又伸出手放下一张小纸条和几根烟。布鲁克斯转过小车返回，他停下来装作整理书以便将给瑞德的纸条夹好。接着，他又从小车中取出香烟装在兜里。
44 INT -- RED‘S CELL -- NIGHT （1947） 44内景--瑞德的号房--夜晚
Red unfolds the slip of paper. Penciled neatly on it is a single word: "Thanks."
瑞德打开纸条。只见上面用铅笔整齐的写着一个词儿“谢谢。”
45 INT -- PRISON LAUNDRY -- DAY （1947） 45内景--洗衣房--白天
We are assaulted by the deafening noise of the laundry line. Andy is doing his job， getting good at it. 巨大的噪音响起来，安迪在洗衣房干着活，他已逐渐适应他的工作。
BOB 鲍伯

DUFRESNE! WE‘RE LOW ON HEXLITE! HEAD ON BACK AND FETCH US UP SOME! “杜弗兰，洗涤剂不够了，你到后面去拿些来。”
Andy nods. He leaves the line， weaving his way through the laundry room and into --
安迪点头离开，迂回着走出洗衣房进入……
46 INT -- BACK ROOMS/STOCK AREA -- DAY （1947） 46 内景--后屋--储藏区
-- a dark， tangled maze of rooms and corridors， boilers and furnaces， sump pumps， old washing machines， pallets of cleaning supplies and detergents， you name it. Andy hefts a cardboard drum of Hexlite off the stack， turns around --
黑暗的，凌乱的房间和曲折的过道，蒸汽炉、油泵，陈旧的洗衣机，放着清洁剂的货台，说不清叫什么名字。安迪从杂货堆上搬起一个海克斯雷洗涤剂桶，转身……
-- and finds Bogs Diamond in the aisle. blocking his way. Rooster looms from the shadows to his right， Pete Verness on the left. A frozen beat. Andy slams the Hexlite to the floor， rips off the top， and scoops out a double handful.
发现伯格斯站在过道上挡住他的去路，路斯特从他右侧的阴暗处逼进，皮特.佛尼斯则在左边。安迪紧张得心都不跳了，他把桶扔到地上，撕开桶顶，捞出两把洗涤剂。
ANDY安迪
You get this in your eyes， it blinds you. “眼睛里要是进了它，会瞎的。”
BOGS伯格斯
Honey， hush. “安静，亲爱的。”
Andy backs up， holding them at bay， trying to maneuver through the maze. The Sisters keep coming， tense and guarded， eyes riveted and gauging his every move， trying to outflank him. Andy trips on some old gaint sugglies. That‘s all it takes. They‘re on him in an instant， kicking and stomping.
安迪往后退，在墙角处与他们僵持并试图移出曲折的过道。三姐妹跟着，死盯住他，不放过他的每一个举动，并试图包抄。安迪拌倒在巨大的旧sugglies上，这已足够。三姐妹立刻抓住了他，拳打脚踢。
Andy gets yanked to his feet. Bogs applies a chokehold from behind. They propel him across the room and slam him against an old four-pocket machine， bending him over it. Rooster jams a rag into Andy‘s mouth and secures it with a steel pipe， like a horse bit. Andy kicks and struggles， but Rooster and Pete have his arms firmly pinned. Bogs whispers in Andy‘s ear:
安迪的一只脚被拽住，伯格斯从后面勒住他的脖子。他们推搡着安迪把他猛得按在一台有着four-pocket的旧机器上，压着他弯下腰去。鲁斯特把一块破布塞进安迪嘴里，并用一根钢管别住，就像一副马嚼子。安迪挣扎着踢着，但鲁斯特和皮特紧紧地扭住他的双臂使他动弹不得。伯格斯在安迪耳边轻语：
BOGS伯格斯
That‘s it， fight. Better that way. “对极了，反抗吧。这样最好！”
Andy starts screaming， muffled by the rag. CAMERA PULLS BACK， SLOWLY WIDENING. The big Washex blocks our view. All we see is Andy‘s screaming face and the men holding him down……
安迪开始大叫，但被嘴里的破布闷住。镜头后拉，慢慢地拉宽。粗大的华氏（品牌）配件挡住我们的视线，能看到的只是安迪正在大喊的面孔和按住他的两个人……
……and CAMERA DRIFTS FROM THE ROOM， leaving the dark place and the dingy act behind……MOVING up empty corridors， past concrete walls and steel pipes……
镜头在房间里移动，移出了这黑暗的地方和肮脏的行为，向上移过空空的走廊，穿过钢管和水泥墙……
RED （V.O.）瑞德（旁白）
I wish I could tell you that Andy fought the good fight， and the Sisters let him be. I wish I could tell you that， but prison is no fairy-tale world. “我真想说安迪反抗的很成功，三姐妹们也拿他无可奈何。我真想这样说，但监狱可不是个童话世界。”
WE EMERGE into the prison laundry past a guard， WIDENING for a final view of the line. The giant steel "mangler" is slapping down in brutal rhythm. The sound is deafening.
镜头掠过一个守卫进入洗衣房，对工作线扩展成一个全景，巨大的钢铁“压榨机”以无情的节奏轰隆做响，震耳欲聋。
RED （V.O.） 瑞德（旁白）
He never said who did it……but we all knew. “他从未说过是谁干的，可我们都知道。”
PRISON MONTAGE: （1947 through 1949） 监狱的蒙太奇镜头（1947年到1949年）
47 Andy plods through his days. Working. Eating. Chipping and shaping his rocks after lights-out…… 47
安迪艰难的过着日子。干活、吃饭，熄灯之后削凿他的石头。
RED （V.O.） 瑞德（旁白）
Things went on like that for a while. Prison life consists of routine， and then more routine. “日子一时就这样继续着，监狱的生活由一系列常规的事情组成，并会越来越常规。”
48 Andy walks the yard， face swollen and bruised. 48安迪在院里走动，鼻青脸肿。
RED （V.O.） 瑞德（旁白）
Every so often， Andy would show up with fresh bruises. “经常可以看到，安迪带着新伤出现。”
49 Andy eats breakfast. A few tables over， Bogs blows him a kiss. 49
安迪在吃早餐，隔几张桌子，伯格斯对着他来了个飞吻。
RED （V.O.） 瑞德（旁白）
The Sisters kept at him. Sometimes he was able to fight them off…… sometimes not.
“三姐妹坚持纠缠着他，有时他能尽力摆脱，有时则不能。”
50 Andy backs into a corner in some dingy part of the prison， wildly swinging a rake at his tormentors.50
监狱某处灰暗的地方，安迪后退到一角，狂乱的冲着他的骚扰者们挥舞着手中的耙子。
RED （V.O.） 瑞德（旁白）
He always fought， that‘s what I remember. He fought because he knew if he didn‘t fight， it would make it that much easier not to fight the next time.
“我记得，他总是反抗。他反抗是因为他知道如果他不反抗，下次就更不会反抗了。”
The rake connects， snapping off over somebody‘s skull. They beat the hell out of him. 耙子击中一个人的头顶，猛地折断。他们拼命的揍他。
RED （V.O.） 瑞德（旁白）
Half the time it landed him in the infirmary…… “这种情况多半都会让他住进医务所。”
51 INT -- SOLITARY CONFINEMENT （"THE HOLE"） -- NIGHT 51内景--禁闭室--夜晚
A stone closet. No bed， sink， or lights. Just a toilet with no seat. Andy sits on bare concrete， bruised face lit by a faint ray of light falling through the tiny slit in the steel door.
一个石室，没有床、洗脸池，甚至灯，只有一个无座的马桶。安迪坐在光秃秃的水泥地上，一束微弱的光透过铁门上狭小的出气口照在他瘀伤的脸上。
RED （V.O.） 瑞德（旁白）
……the other half， it landed him in solitary. Warden Norton‘s "grain & drain" vacation. Bread， water， and all the privacy you could want.
“另一半情况，他则会被关禁闭--典狱长诺顿的“吃饱与消耗”休假。面包、水，所有独处（禁闭）用的必需品。”
52 INT -- PRISON LAUNDRY -- DAY （1949） 52内景--洗衣房--白天
Andy is working the line. 安迪在工作线上工作。
RED （V.O.） 瑞德（旁白）
And that‘s how it went for Andy. That was his routine. I do believe those first two years were the worst for him. And I also believe if things had gone on that way， this place would have got the best of him. But then， in the spring of 1949， the powers-that-be decided that…… “这就是安迪的生活，这就是安迪的常规生活。我的确认为对他来说最糟糕的就是头两年了，而且我还认为如果断续这样下去的话，这个地方会毁了他。但是，在1949年的春天，监狱的掌权者决定……”
53 EXT -- PRISON YARD -- DAY （1949） 53外景--监狱操场--白天
Warden Norton addresses the assembled cons via bullhorn:
典狱长诺顿冲着扩音器对集合起来的犯人们讲话：
NORTON 诺顿
……the roof of the license-plate factory needs resurfacing. I need a dozen volunteers for a week‘s work. We‘re gonna be taking names in this steel bucket here……
“车牌厂的房顶需要重铺，我需要12个人，工作一周。我们会把名字放进这个铁桶里……”
Red glances around at his friends. Andy also catches his eye.
瑞德四周环视着他的朋友们，安迪也看了他一眼。
RED （V.O.） 瑞德（旁白）
It was outdoor detail， and May is one damn fine month to be workin‘ outdoors.
“这是件可以出去的话儿，而且五月可是个在外干活的绝好月份。”
54 EXT -- PRISON YARD -- DAY （1949） 54外景--监狱操场--白天
Cons shuffle past， dropping slips of paper into a bucket.
犯人们纷纷地把纸条放入铁桶中。
RED （V.O.） 瑞德（旁白）
More than a hundred men volunteered for the job. “有一百多人都想干这个活儿。”
Red saunters to a guard named TIM YOUNGBLOOD， mutters discreetly in his ear.
瑞德漫步走到一个叫蒂姆.杨伯拉德的守卫跟前，小心的对着他耳语。
55 EXT -- PRISON YARD -- DAY （1949） 55外景--监狱操场--白天
Youngblood is pulling names and reading them off. Red exchanges grins with Andy and the others.
杨伯拉德正在拿出写着名字的纸条并念着上面的名字，瑞德与安迪及其它人则咧着嘴笑着。
RED （V.O.） 瑞德（旁白）
Wouldn‘t you know it？ Me and some fellas I know were among the names called.
“还不知道吗？我和我的伙计们已经被选中啦！”
56 INT -- PRISON CORRIDOR -- NIGHT （1949） 56内景--监狱走廊--夜晚

Red slips Youngblood six packs of cigarettes. 瑞德塞给杨伯拉德六包香烟。
RED （V.O.） 瑞德（旁白）
Only cost us a pack of smokes per man. I made my usual twenty percent， of course.
“只花费了我们一人一包烟。当然，如同往常，我照拿20%。”
57 EXT -- LICENSE PLATE FACTORY -- DAY （1949） 57外景--车牌厂�C白天
A tar-cooker bubbles and smokes. TWO CONS dip up a bucket oftar and tie a rope to the handle. The rope goes taught. CAMERAFOLLOWS the bucket of tar up the side of the building to--
煮沥青的锅里冒着烟气和泡泡还有，两个犯人捞起一桶沥青，在提手上系上绳子，系紧。镜头跟着那桶沥青从楼房的一边往上升……
58 THE ROOF 58房顶
-- where it is relayed to the work detail. The men are dipping big Padd brushes and spreading the tar. ANGLZ OVER to Byron Hadley bitching sourly to his fellow guards:
桶被传递到干活的地儿，人们正在用大拖布蘸沥青然后涂开。镜头转到拜伦.哈雷，他正气急败坏的向同事们抱怨着。
HADLEY 哈雷
……so this shithead lawyer calls long distance from Texas， and he says， Byron Hadley？ I say， yeah. He says， sorry to inform you， but your brother just died.
“这个蠢蛋律师从遥远的得克萨斯打来电话，他说，拜伦.哈雷？我说，是的。他说，很遗憾的通知你，你的兄弟刚去世了。”
YOUNGBLOOD 杨伯拉德
Damn， Byron. Sorry to hear that. “见鬼，拜伦。听到此消息，我很难过。”
HADLEY 哈雷
I ain‘t. He was an asshole. Run off years ago， family ain‘t heard of him since. Figured him for dead anyway. So this lawyer prick says， your brother died a rich man. Oil wells and shit， close to a million bucks. Jesus， it‘s frigging incredible how lucky some assholes can get.
“我可不难过。他就是个王八蛋。数年前出走，家里就再也没有他的消息，认为他已经死掉了。那个狗屁律师说，你的兄弟死时很富有，他有油井和近百万的钞票。天，简直不可思议有些王八蛋怎么那么幸运！”
TROUT 特劳特
A million bucks？ Jeez-Louise! You get any of that？ “一百万？老天！有你的份吗？”
HADLEY 哈雷
Thirty five thousand. That‘s what he left me. “35，000，他留给我的。”
TROUT特劳特
Dollars？ Holy shit， that‘s great! Like winnin‘ a lottery…… （off Hadley‘s shitty look） ……ain‘t it？
“美元？真他妈的，太棒了！如同中了彩票！（哈雷的脸色极其难看）不是吗？”
HADLEY 哈雷
Dumbshit. What do you figure the government‘s gonna do to me？ Take a big wet bite out of my ass， is what. “操他妈的！你知道政府会怎样对我吗？狠狠地从我这儿挖走一大块！”
TROUT特劳特
Oh. Hadn‘t thought of that. “哦，我没想到这一点。”
HADLEY哈雷
Maybe leave me enough to buy a new car with. Then what happens？ You pay tax on the car. Repairs and maintenance. Goddamn kids pesterin‘ you to take ‘em for a ride……
“也许能给我剩下钱买一辆新车，但接下来呢？你要付车税，修理费和保养费。天杀的孩子们也会缠着你带他们坐车。”
MERT摩尔特
And drive it， if they‘re old enough. “还有驾车，当他们长到年龄时。”
HADLEY哈雷
That‘s right， wanting to drive it， wanting to learn on it， f‘Chrissake! Then at the end of the year， if you figured the tax wrong， they make you pay out of your own pocket. Uncle Sam puts his hand in your shirt and squeezes your tit till it‘s purple. Always get the short end. That‘s a fact. （spits over the side） Some brother. Shit.
“没错，想开车，想学车，看在上帝的面子上！到了年底，如果你把税弄错，他们就会从你的腰包里掏钱。山姆大叔把手伸进你的衬衫，直到把你掏的一干二净！这就是事实！” （扭头吐了一口）“什么兄弟，狗屁！”
The prisoners keep spreading tar， eyes on their work. 犯人们一直在铺沥青，盯着自己的活。
HEYWOOD海沃德
Poor Byron. What terrible fuckin‘ luck. Imagine inheriting thirty five thousand dollars.
“可怜的拜伦，多糟糕的幸运呀！只能想着继承35，000千美元。”
RED瑞德
Crying shame. Some folks got it awful bad. “有够丢人，有些人就那么倒霉！”
Red glances over -- and is shocked to see Andy standing up，listening to the guards talk.
瑞德扫了一眼，吃惊发现安迪站起身，倾听守卫们的谈话。
RED瑞德
Hey， you nuts？ Keep your eyes on your pail!“嗨，你疯了？看着你的桶吧！”
Andy tosses his Padd in the bucket and strolls toward Hadley.
安迪把拖布扔到桶里朝哈雷走去。
RED瑞德
Andy! Come back! Shit! “安迪，回来！妈的！”
SNOOZE斯诺
What‘s he doing？ “他在做什么？”
FLOYD费洛伊德
Gettin‘ himself killed. “自杀。”
RED瑞德
God damn it…… “该死！”
HEYWOOD海沃德
Just keep spreadin‘ tar…… “铺沥青吧……”
The guards stiffen at Andy‘s approach. Youngblood‘s hand goesto his holster. The tower guards CLICK-CLACK their rifle bolts. Hadley turns， stupefied to find Andy there.
看到安迪走过来，守卫们顿时紧张起来。杨伯拉德的手伸向枪套，哨兵也“咔啦”拉上枪栓。哈雷转过身，惊讶地发现安迪在那儿。
ANDY安迪
Mr. Hadley. Do you trust your wife？ “哈雷先生，你信任你的妻子吗？”
HADLEY哈雷
That‘s funny. You‘re gonna look funnier suckin‘ my dick with no fuckin‘ teeth.
“这很好笑，用你他妈的没牙的嘴来吸我的老二看起来会更好笑的。”
ANDY安迪
What I mean is， do you think she‘d go behind your back try to hamstring you？
“我的意思是，你认为她会在你的背后加害于你吗？”
HADLZY哈雷
That‘s it! Step aside， Mert. This fucker‘s havin‘ hisself an accident.
“好吧！让开，摩尔特。这个王八蛋就要出事了。”
Hadley grabs Andy‘s collar and propels him violently toward the edge of the roof. The cons furiously keep spreading tar.
哈雷揪住安迪的衣领粗暴的把他拖到屋顶的边缘，犯人们飞快的铺着沥青。
HEYWOOD海沃德
Oh God， he‘s gonna do it， he‘s gonna throw him off the roof……
“哦，上帝，他就要干了，他就要把他从屋顶扔下去啦……”
SNOOZE斯诺
Oh shit， oh fuck， oh Jesus…… “哦，妈的，哦，我靠，哦，天呢！”
ANDY安迪
Because if you do trust her， there‘s no reason in the world you can‘t keep every cent of that money.
“只要你完全相信她，没有什么理由能从你手中拿走一分钱！”
Hadley abruptly jerks Andy to a stop right at the edge. In fact， Andy‘s past the edge， beyond his balance， shoetips scraping the roof. The only thing between him and an ugly drop to the concrete is Hadley‘s grip on the front of his shirt.
哈雷猛得在房顶边扯住安迪。事实上，安迪已越过房沿，失去平衡，只剩脚尖踩着房顶边儿。唯一使他摔不到水泥地上的凭借就是哈雷抓着他的前领。

HADLEY哈雷
You better start making sense. “你最好给我说明白点儿。”
ANDY安迪
If you want to keep that money， all of it， just give it to your wife. See， the IRS allows you a one-time- only gift to your spouse. It‘s good up to sixty thousand dollars.
“如果你想保住你的钱，所有的钱，只要把它送给你妻子就可以了。是这样，国税局允许一次性的送礼物给配偶，最多可以到60，000美元。”
HADLEY哈雷
Naw， that ain‘t right! Tax free？ “不，那不可能！免税的嘛？”
ANDY安迪
Tax free. IRS can‘t touch one cent. “免税的，税局碰不到一分钱！”
The cons are pausing work， stunned by this business discussion.
犯人们都停下的手中的活，被这笔交易所震惊。
HADLEY哈雷
You‘re the smart banker what shot his wife. Why should I believe a smart banker like you？ So‘s I can wind up in here with you？
“你就是那个精明的杀妻银行家？我为什么要信你这种滑头的银行家？让我完蛋后跟你一起坐牢吗？”
ANDY安迪
It‘s perfectly legal. Go ask the IRS， they‘ll say the same thing. Actually， I feel silly telling you all this. I‘m sure you would have investigated the matter yourself.
“完全合法。去问国税，他们也会这样说。实际上，我感到我很傻告诉你这件事，我想你定会亲自调查此事的。”
HADLEY哈雷
Fuckin‘-A. I don‘t need so smart wife-killin‘ banker to show me where the bear shit in the buckwheat（q6）.
“去你妈的！我才不需要你这样狡猾的杀妻银行家来告诉我呢！”
ANDY安迪
Of course not. But you will need somebody to set up the tax-free gift， and that‘ll cost you. A lawyer， for example……
“当然不用。可你需要人来想出免税的礼物，那会花钱的。还有律师，比如……”
HADLEY哈雷
Ambulance-chasing， highway-robbing cocksuckers!
“那些高速公路上、跟着救护车的下流抢劫犯么！”
ANDY安迪
……or come to think of it， I suppose I could set it up for you. That would save you some money. I‘ll write down the forms you need， you can pick them up， and I‘ll prepare them for your signature…… nearly free of charge. （off Hadley‘s look） I‘d only ask three beers apiece for my co-workers， if that seems fair.
“或者这样想，我或许能帮你做此事，这会给你省钱的。我写下所需的表格，你领回来，我再帮你填好，你签字就可以了……（看看哈雷的表情）我只要求给我的同事们每人三瓶啤酒，如果还算公平的话。”
TROUT特劳特
（guffawing） Co-workers! Get him! That‘s rich， ain‘t it？ Co-workers……
（大笑）“同事？他很牛哇啊！同事……”
Hadley freezes him with a look. Andy presses on: 哈雷冷冷地看了他一眼。安迪接着说：
ANDY安迪
I think a man working outdoors feels more like a man if he can have a bottle of suds. That‘s only my opinion.
“我想在户外干活要是能有啤酒喝的话，感觉就会更像一个正常人，这就是我的想法。”
The convicts stand gaping， all pretense of work gone. They look like they‘ve been pole-axed（q7）. Hadley shoots them a look.
囚犯们怔怔的站着，都装着无活可干，看起来就像被钉住了身子。哈雷瞪了他们一眼。
HADLEY哈雷
What are you jimmies starin‘ at？ Back to work， goddamn it!
“你们这些小子看什么呢？接着干活，该死的！”
59 EXT -- LICENSE PLATE FACTORY -- DAY （1949） 59 外景--车牌厂--白天
As before， an object is hauled up the side of the building by rope -- only this time， it‘s a cooler of beer and ice.
像以前一样，一样东西沿着房子的一边被绳子拽了上来，但这次，是装着冰块和啤酒的保温桶。
RED （V.O.） 瑞德（旁白）
And that‘s how it came to pass， that on the second-to-last day of the job， the convict crew that tarred the plate factory roof in the spring of ‘49……
“这就是事情的经过，在这件工作完成的倒数第二天，这群在房顶涂沥青的囚犯在49年的春天……”
60 EXT -- ROOF -- SHORTLY LATER （1949） 60外景--房顶--一会儿
The cons are taking the sun and drinking beer. 犯人们正在喝着啤酒，淋浴阳光。
RED （V.O.） 瑞德（旁白）
……wound up sitting in a row at ten o‘clock in the morning， drinking icy cold Black Label beer courtesy of the hardest screw that ever walked a turn（q）at Shawshank State Prison.
“在早晨10点钟坐成一排，喝着冰凉的肖申克州立监狱有史以来最狠的狱卒请客的黑标啤酒。”
HADLEY哈雷
Drink up， boys. While it‘s cold. “都喝了吧，孩子们，趁着凉。”
RED （V.O.） 瑞德（旁白）
The colossal prick even managed to sound magnanimous.
“那个凶狠的家伙竟试着显示出他的宽宏来。”
Red knocks back another sip， enjoying the bitter cold on his tongue and the warm sun on face.
瑞德仰头又喝了一口，享受舌尖上那啤酒的清凉，温和的阳光映在脸上。
RED （V.O.） 瑞德（旁白）
We sat and drank with the sun on our shoulders， and felt like free men. We could‘a been tarring the
roof of one of our own houses. We were the Lords of all Creation.
“我们坐着喝酒，身披阳光，感觉就像个自由的人，就像在为自己的房子涂房顶，仿佛我们是一切的主宰。”
He glances over to Andy squatting apart from the others.他看到安迪独自坐在一边。
RED （V.O.） 瑞德（旁白）
As for Andy， he spent that break hunkered in the shade， a strange little smile on his face， watching
us drink his beer.
“至于安迪，他盘坐在荫影下小息，奇怪的笑容挂在脸上，看着我们喝着他的啤酒。”
HEYWOOD海沃德
（approaches with a beer） Here‘s a cold one， Andy.（拿着瓶啤酒走过来）“这儿有瓶凉的，安迪。”
ANDY安迪
No thanks. I gave up drinking. “不，谢谢。我戒酒了。”
Heywood drifts back to others， giving them a look.
海沃德走回去，给其它人做了个无奈的表情。
RED （V.O.） 瑞德（旁白）
You could argue he‘d done it to curry favor with the guards. Or maybe make a few friends among us cons. Me， I think he did it just to feel normal again……if only for a short while.
“你可以认为他这样做是为了讨好守卫，或者想与我们这些人交朋友。我却认为，他之所以这样做是想再次回到正常的生活，即使是一小会儿……”
61 EXT -- PRISON YARD -- THE BLEACHERS -- DAY （1949）外景--操场看台--白天
Andy and Red play checkers. Red makes his move. 安迪和瑞德在下跳棋，瑞德走了一步。
RED瑞德
King me.（q8） “我当王。”
ANDY安迪
Chess. Now there‘s a game of kings. Civilized……strategic……
“象棋，是一个王者的游戏。文明……策略……”
RED瑞德
……and totally fuckin‘ inexplicable. Hate that game.
“还有，完全搞不懂是他妈的怎么回事，我讨厌这游戏。”

ANDY安迪
Maybe you‘ll let me teach you someday. I‘ve been thinking of getting a board together.
“也许哪天你会让我教你的，我一直在考虑一起弄个棋盘。”
RED瑞德
You come to the right place. I‘m the man who can get things.
“这你可找对地方了，我就是能弄到东西的人。”
ANDY安迪
We might do business on a board. But the pieces， I‘d like to carve those myself. One side done in quartz…… the opposing side in limestone.
“棋盘可以买，但棋子我想自己刻。一方用石英，一方用石灰石。”
RED瑞德
That‘d take you years. “那得花好几年。”
ANDY安迪
Years I‘ve got. What I don‘t have are the rocks. Pickings here in the exercise yard are pretty slim.
“时间我有，没有的是石头。这儿的操场上几乎捡不到的。”
RED瑞德
How‘s that rock-hammer workin‘ out anyway？ Scratch your name on your wall yet？
“那把石锤用的还行吧？把你的名字刻到墙上了吗？”
ANDY安迪
（smiles） Not yet. I suppose I should. （微笑）“还没有，我想我会刻的。”
RED瑞德
Andy？ I guess we‘re gettin‘ to be friends， ain‘t we？ “安迪，我们正在做朋友，对吧？”
ANDY安迪
I suppose we are.“我想是的。”
RED瑞德
I ask a question？ Why‘d you do it？ “问个问题，你为什么那样做？”
ANDY安迪
I‘m innocent， remember？ Just like everybody else here.
“我是无辜的，记得吗？就像这里所有的人。”
Red takes this as a gentle rebuff， keeps playing. 瑞德认为这是礼貌的回绝，继续玩棋。
ANDY安迪
What are you in for， Red？ “你怎么进来的，瑞德？”
RED瑞德
Murder. Same as you. “杀人，跟你一样。”
ANDY安迪
Innocent？ “也是无辜的吗？”
RED瑞德
The only guilty man in Shawshank. “肖申克监狱唯一有罪的人。”
62 INT -- ANDY‘S CELL -- NIGHT （1949） 62内景--安迪的号房--夜晚
Andy lies in his bunk after lights out， polishing a fragment of quartz by the light of the moon. He pauses， glancing at all the names scratched in the wall. He rises， makes sure the coast is clear， and starts scratching his name into the cement with his rock-hammer， adding to the record.
熄灯后安迪躺在他的铺上，借着月光打磨着一小块石英。他停了下来，扫视着那些刻在墙上的名字。他往上看，直到确定一块干净的地方，然后开始用石锤在水泥墙上刻上他的名字，添此记录。
63 RAY MILLAND 63雷米兰（电影）
fills the screen in glorious （and scratchy） black & white， suffering a bad case of DT‘s（q9）……
屏幕上被凌乱繁杂的黑白色填满，影片一时间断了……
64 INT -- PRISON AUDITORIUM -- NIGHT （1949） 64内景--礼堂--夜晚
……while a CONVICT AUDIENCE hoots and catcalls， talking back to the screen. We find Red slouched in a folding chair， watching the movie. Andy enters， backlit by the flickering glare of the projector， and takes a seat next to him.
囚犯观众们叫着、喊着，嘘声四起。瑞德则懒懒地蜷在折椅上，看着电影。安迪走了进来，放映机闪烁的光束照着他的后背，他找了个座位坐在瑞德旁边。
RED瑞德
Here‘s the good part. Bugs come out of the walls to get his ass.
“这个地方是影片最好的片段，虫子从墙里爬出来跑到他的屁股上。”
ANDY安迪
I know. I‘ve seen it three times this month already. “知道，我这个月已经看三回了。”
Ray Milland starts SCREAMING. The entire audience SCREAMS with him， high-pitched and hysterical. Andy fidgets.
雷米兰开始大叫，所有观众也与他一起大叫，高声尖叫、歇斯底里，安迪坐立不安。
ANDY安迪
Can we talk business？ “我们能商量点儿事吗？”
RED瑞德
Sure. What do you want？ “当然，你想要什么？”
ANDY安迪
Rita Hayworth. Can you get her？ “蕾塔.海沃斯，你能找到她吗？”
RED瑞德
No problem. Take a few weeks. “没问题，得过几周。”
ANDY安迪
Weeks？ “几周？”
RED瑞德
Don‘t have her stuffed down my pants this very moment， sorry to say. Relax. What are you so nervous about？ She‘s just a woman.
“她现在又没塞在我的裤子里，抱歉我这样说。放松些，你怎么这么紧张？她只是个女人罢了。”
Andy nods， embarrassed. He gets up and hurries out. Red grins， turns back to the movie.
安迪点点头，有些尴尬。他站起来，匆匆走了。瑞德咧嘴一笑，继续看电影。
65 INT -- AUDITORIUM CORRIDOR -- NIGHT （1949） 65内景--礼堂走廊--夜晚
Andy exits the theater and freezes in his tracks. Two dark figures loom in the corridor， blocking his path. Rooster and Pete. Andy turns back -- and runs right into Bogs. Instant bear hug. The Sisters are on him like a flash. They kick a door open and drag him into--
安迪走出剧场，突然停了下来。两个黑影在走廊中隐现出来，阻挡住他的去路，鲁斯特和皮特。安迪转身，伯格斯也从右边冲了过来。短暂的扭打后，三姐妹快速的控制住他，踢开一扇门，把他拖了进去……
66 THE PROJECTION BOOTH 66放映室
-- where they confront the startled PROJECTIONIST， an old con blinking at them through thick bifocals.
放映室里他们碰到目瞪口呆的放映员--一个老囚犯，透过厚厚的眼睛片惊愕的看着他们。
BOGS伯格斯
Take a walk. “出去。”
PROJECTIONIST放映员
I have to change reels. “可我还得换片。”
BOGS伯格斯
I said fuck off. “我说你给我滚蛋！”
Terrified， the old man darts past and out the door. Pete slams and locks it. Bogs shoves Andy to the center of the room.
吓坏了的老人赶忙走出门外，皮特砰得关上门并锁住，伯格斯把安迪猛推到屋子中间。
BOGS伯格斯
Ain‘t you gonna scream？ “你不打算尖叫吗？”

Andy sighs， cocks his head at the projector. 安迪叹口气，头斜靠在放映机上。
ANDY安迪
They‘d never hear me over that. Let‘s get this over with.
“别人从未听到过我叫喊，我们来个了断吧。”
Seemingly resigned， Andy turns around， leans on the rewind bench -- and curls his fingers around a full 1.000 foot reel of 35mm film. Rooster licks his lips， pushes past the others.
似乎很顺从，安迪转过身去，倚住倒片台，手指缠上一整卷1000尺的35毫米胶片。鲁斯特舔舔嘴唇，挤上前去。
ROOSTER鲁斯特
Me first. “我先来。”
ANDY安迪
Okay. “好的。”
Andy whips the reel of film around in a vicious arc， smashing it into Rooster‘s face and bouncing him off the wall.
安迪猛得将那卷胶片舞成一条弧线，狠狠地砸在鲁斯特的脸上，把他撞击到了墙上。
ROOSTER鲁斯特
Fuck! Shit! He broke my nose! “我操！妈的！他打碎了我的鼻子！”
Andy fights like hell， but is soon overpowered and forced to his knees. Bogs steps to Andy， pulls out an awl with a vicious eight-inch spike， gives him a good long look at it.
安迪拼命的反抗，但不一会儿就被制服、被压着跪在地上。伯格斯走到安迪面前，拔出一把足有八英寸锥头的锥子，让安迪仔细看了看。
BOGS伯格斯
Now I‘m gonna open my fly， and you‘re gonna swallow what I give you to swallow. And when you
d mine， you gonna swallow Rooster‘s. You done broke his nose， so he ought to have somethin‘ to show for it.
“现在，我要解开裤子，我让你吞什么你就得吞什么。吞完我的再吞鲁斯特的，你打碎了他的鼻子，他应该有所补偿。”
ANDY安迪
Anything you put in my mouth， you‘re going to lose. “无论你把什么放到我嘴里，都会报废的。”
BOGS伯格斯
You don‘t understand. You do that， I‘ll put all eight inches of this steel in your ear.
“你没弄明白，你要是那样，这把八英寸长的钢钉就会刺你的耳朵里。”
ANDY安迪
Okay. But you should know that sudden serious brain injury causes the victim to bite down. Hard. （faint smile） In fact， I understand the bite-reflex is so strong the victim‘s jaws have to be pried open with a crowbar.
“好的。可你要知道，大脑受到突如其来的猛烈伤害会使受害者用力的咬合。（微弱的笑了一下）实际上，这种条件反射的咬合是如此之强，以至于受害者的牙关必须得用撬棍才撬得开。”
The Sisters consider this carefully. The film runs out of the projector， flapping on the reel. The screen goes white.
三姐妹认真的考虑了一下，放映机上的胶片已经放完，拍打着卷轴。电影幕布变成了白色。
BOGS伯格斯
You little fuck. “你这个混蛋！”
Andy gets a bootheel in the face. The Sisters start kicking and beating the living shit out of him with anything they can get their hands on. In the theater， the convicts are CHANTING AND CLAPPING for the movie to come back on.
安迪被一脚踢到脸上，三姐妹开始玩命的踢打，使用他们能拿到的任何东西。剧场里，犯人们拍着巴掌，不断地喊叫让影片接着放映。
RED （V.O.）瑞德（旁白）
Bogs didn‘t put anything in Andy‘s mouth， and neither did his friends. What they did do is beat him within an inch of his life……
“伯格斯没有把任何东西放到安迪的嘴里，他的朋友们也没有。他们只是把安迪打了个半死。”
67 INT -- INFIRMARY -- DAY （1949） 67内景--医务室--白天
Andy lies wrapped in bandages. 安迪混身绑着绷带躺着。
RED （V.O.）瑞德（旁白）
Andy spent a month in traction. “安迪做了一个月的牵引（医：对于骨、肌肉等的牵引术）。”
68 INT -- SOLITARY CONFINEMENT -- DAY （1949） 68内景--禁闭室--白天
RED （V.O.）瑞德
Bogs spent a week in the hole. “伯格斯则关了一个星期的禁闭。”
Bogs sits on bare concrete. The steel door slides open.
伯格斯坐在光秃秃的水泥地上，铁门上的出气口打开。
GUARD守卫
Time‘s up， Bogs. “时间到了，伯格斯。”
69 INT -- CELLBLOCK FIVE -- 3RD TIER -- DUSK 内景--五号囚楼三层--黄昏
Bogs comes up the stairs， smoking a cigarette. Not many cons around; the place is virtually deserted. A VOICE echoes dimly over the P.A. system:
伯格斯抽着香烟，走上楼梯。周围没什么犯人；基本上空无一人。从扩音系统中传来微弱的声音：
VOICE （O.S.） 人声
Return to your cellblocks for evening count. “返回牢房，例行点名。”
Bogs enters his cell. Dark in here. He fumbles for the light cord， yanks it. The sudden light reveals Captain Hadley six inches from his face， waiting for him. Mert steps in behind Bogs. hemming him.
伯格斯走入他的号房，黑黑的，他摸索着找着灯绳，拉开。灯光猛得照射出哈雷队长，紧挨着他的脸。哈雷在等他。摩尔特站到伯格斯身后，两人将其围住。
Before Bogs can even open his mouth to say "what the fuck，" Hadley rams the tip of his baton brutally into his solar plexus. Bogs doubles over， gagging his wind out.
“在伯格斯张开嘴说“怎么回事，”之前，哈雷就粗暴的将警棍狠狠的捅在他的心窝。伯格斯痛得弯下腰，哽咽着喘不过气来。”
70 GROUND FLOOR 70底层
Ernie comes slowly around the corner， rolling a steel mop cart loaded with supplies.
厄尼推着一辆小车从拐角处慢慢地走了过来，车上装满供应品。
71 2ND TIER 71二层
Red is darning a sock in his open cell. He pauses， frowning， hearing strange THUMPING sounds. What the hell is that？
瑞德正在他的号房里补袜子，牢门开着。他停了下来，皱起眉，听着奇怪的重击声。究竟是怎么回事？
72 3RD TIER 72三层
It‘s Hadley and Mert methodically and brutally pulping Bogs with their batons， and kicking the shit out of him for good measure. He feebly tries to ward them off.
哈雷和摩尔特正在用警棍有条不紊的痛殴伯格斯，并往死里踢他的要害部位。伯格斯无力的遮挡着。
73 2ND TIER 73二层
Puzzled， Red steps from his cell， following the sound. It dawns on him that it‘s coming from above. He moves to the railing and leans out， craning around to look up--
瑞德很困惑，于是跟着声音走出了牢房。他逐渐听明白声音来自上层，他走到扶栏探出身子，伸着脖子往上看……
74 RED‘S POV 74
-- just as Bogs flips over the railing and comes sailing directly toward us， eyes bugging out， SCREAMING as he falls.
正在这时，伯格斯从栏杆上翻出，眼睛凸着，尖叫着跌落下来。
75 RED （SLOW MOTION） 75瑞德（慢镜头）
jumps back as Bogs plummets past， missing him by inches， arms swimming and trying to grab the railing （but missing that too）， SCREAMING aaaaalll the way down--
瑞德往后一跳，伯格斯从面前坠落，只差几寸碰到他，伯格斯挥舞着手臂试图抓住扶栏（也未抓住），一直尖叫着跌了下去……
76 GROUND FLOOR 76底层
-- and impacting on Ernie‘s gassing mop cart in an enormous eruption of solvents and cleansers. The cart is squashed flat， shooting out from under Bogs and skidding across the cellblock floor like a tiddly wink， kicking up sparks for thirty yards. Ernie is left gaping in shock at Bogs and all the Bogs-related wreckage at his feet.
……重重的跌在厄尼的小车上，车上的溶解剂和清洁剂崩的到处都是，车被压扁后从伯格斯的身下迸出，车轮打着滑停在了牢房的地板上，火花溅起老远。厄尼在一旁张着嘴震惊的看着，脚边是散落的残片。
77 2ND TIER 77二层
Red is stunned. He very tentatively leans out and looks up. Above him， Hadley and Mert lean on the 3rd tier railing. Hadley tilts the cap back on his head， shakes his head.
瑞德目瞪口呆，他颤颤危危探出身子向上看。他的上面，哈雷和摩尔特靠着三层的护栏。哈雷把帽子往上斜了斜，晃了晃头。
MERT摩尔特
Damn， Byron. Look‘a that. “见鬼，拜伦，你看！”
HADLEY哈雷
Poor fella must‘a tripped. “笨蛋总是会跌倒的！”

A tiny drop of blood drips off the toe of Hadley‘s shoe and splashes across Red‘s upturned cheek. He wipes it off， then looks down at Bogs. Cons and guards are racing to the scene.
一滴鲜血从哈雷的鞋尖上滴下，溅到瑞德向上仰着的脸上。他拭去血滴，向下看伯格斯。犯人和守卫们向这里跑了过来。
RED （V.O.）瑞德（旁白）
Two things never happened again after that. The Sisters never laid a finger on Andy again……
“自此之后，有两件事再也没有发生。三姐妹再没碰过安迪一指头……”
78 EXT -- PRISON YARD/LOADING DOCK -- DAY （1949） 外景―操场/装卸处―白天
Bogs， wheelchair-bound and wearing a neck brace， is loaded onto an ambulance for transport. Behind the fence stand Red and his friends， watching.
伯格斯，被固定到轮椅上，脖子套着支架，正在被弄上运送他的救护车。隔着围栏站着瑞德和他的朋友们，观看。
RED （V.O.）瑞德（旁白）
……and Bogs never walked again. They transferred him to a minimum security hospital upstate. To my knowledge， he lived out the rest of his days drinking his food through a straw.
“伯格斯再也不能走路，他们把他转到了州北部的一家看守最松的医院。依我来看，他要用吸管进食以度过下半生了。”
RED瑞德
I‘m thinkin‘ Andy could use a nice welcome back when he gets out of the infirmary.
“我正在想等安迪从医务所出来时，给他送个见面礼。”
HEYWOOD海沃德
Sounds good to us. Figure we owe him for the beer. “说的好，我们还欠着他的啤酒呢！”
RED瑞德
Man likes to play chess. Let‘s get him some rocks. “他喜欢下象棋，我们给他弄些石头吧。”
79 EXT -- FIELD -- DAY （1949） 79外景--田地--白天
A HUNDRED CONS at work. Hoes rise and fall in long waves. GUARDS patrol on horseback. Heywood turns up a rocky chunk， quickly shoves it down his pants. He maneuvers to Red and the
others， pulls out the chunk and shows it to them.
上百个犯人在干活，用锄头翻地。守卫则在田埂上巡逻。海沃德发现一个石头块，立刻塞到裤子里。他悄悄挪到瑞德他们那儿，取出石块给他们看。
FLOYD弗洛伊德
That ain‘t quartz. Nor limestone. “这不是石英也不是石灰岩。”
HEYWOOD海沃德
What are you， fuckin‘ geologist？ “你他妈的是谁？地质学家吗！”
SNOOZE斯诺
He‘s right， it ain‘t. “他说的对，这不是。”
HEYWOOD海沃德
What the hell is it then？ “那这究竟是什么？”
RED瑞德
Horse apple. “马肥料。”
HEYWOOD海沃德
Bullshit. “胡说！”
RED瑞德
No， horse shit. Petrified. “啊不，是马粪，石化了的。”
Cackling， the men go back to work. Heywood stares at the rock. He crumbles it in his hands.
大家呵呵笑着，接着干活去了。海沃德盯着这块石头，把它捏碎在手里。
RED （V.O.）瑞德（旁白）
Despite a few hitches， the boys came through in fine style……
“尽管而些困难，但大伙还是很顺利的克服了。”
80 INT -- PRISON LAUNDRY -- BACK ROOM -- DAY （1949） 80内景--洗衣房--后屋
A huge detergent box is filled with rocks， hidden in the shadows behind a boiler furnace.
一个大大的清洁剂盒子，装满了石头，藏在蒸汽炉背后的阴影里。
RED （V.O.）瑞德（旁白）
……and by the week Andy was due back， we had enough rocks saved up to keep him busy till Rapture.
“到安迪要回来的那一周，我们已经攒了足够的石头，足以让他忙活到死。”
ANGLE SHIFTS to Red as he plops a bag of "laundry" on the floor. Leonard and Bob toss a few more down. Red starts pulling out contraband， giving them their commissions.
视角切换到瑞德，他扑通一声将一袋“衣物”扔到地板上，莱昂纳德和鲍伯也扔下来几个。瑞德开始取出偷带的违禁品，并付给他们相应的酬劳。
RED （V.O.）瑞德（旁白）
Also got a big shipment in that week. Cigarettes， chewing gum， shoelaces， playing cards with naked ladies on ‘em， you name it…… （pulls a cardboard tube） ……and， of course， the most important item.
“那周还到了一大批货。香烟、口香糖、鞋带、印有裸体女人的扑克，虽你怎么叫它吧……（拿出一个纸筒）当然，还有最重要的东西。”
81 INT -- CELLBLOCK FIVE -- NIGHT （1949） 81内景--五号囚楼--夜晚
Andy， limping a bit， returns from the infirmary. Red watches from his cell as Andy is brought up and locked away.
安迪从医务所回来，走路稍微有点儿瘸。瑞德在他的号房看着安迪被带上来锁进牢房。
82 INT -- ANDY‘S CELL -- NIGHT （1949） 82内景 -- 安迪--夜晚
Andy finds the cardboard tube lying on his bunk. 安迪在他的铺上发现那个纸筒。
GUARD （O.S.）守卫
Lights out! “熄灯！”
The lights go off. Andy opens the tube and pulls out a large rolled poster. He lets it uncurl to the floor. A small scrap of paper flutters out， landing at his feet. The poster is the famous Rita Hayworth pin-up -- one hand behind her head， eyes half closed， sulky lips parted. Andy picks up the scrap of paper. It reads: "No charge. Welcome back." Alone in the dark， Andy smiles.
灯灭了，安迪打开纸筒，抽出一大张卷着的海报，他在地下展开。一张小纸片飘出，落到他的脚边。海报是着名的丽塔.海沃斯的照片，一只手放在脑后，眼睛半睁，忧郁的嘴唇微张。安迪捡起纸片，上面写到：“免费，欢迎回来。”黑暗中，安迪微笑着。
83 INT -- CELLBLOCK FIVE -- MORNING （1949） 83内景--五号囚楼--早晨
The BUZZER SOUNDS， the cells SLAM OPEN. Cons step from their cells. Andy catches Red‘s eye， nods his thanks. As the men shuffle down to breakfast， Red glances into Andy‘s cell--
蜂鸣器响了起来，牢门砰砰的打开，犯人们走出他们的号房。安迪用眼睛会意瑞德，并点头致谢。人们纷纷去吃饭的时候，瑞德看了一眼安迪的号房……
84 RED‘S POV -- DOLLYING PAST 84 瑞德的视线--镜头扫过
-- and sees Rita in her new place of honor on Andy‘s wall. Sunlight casts a harsh barred shadow across her lovely face.
……看到丽塔在安迪的墙上炫耀着她的风姿，阳光将无情的栅影，映在她可爱的脸庞。
85 INT -- CELLBLOCK FIVE -- NIGHT （1949） 85 内景--五号囚楼--夜晚
Ernie is mopping the floor. He glances back and sees Warden Norton approach the cellblock with an entourage of a DOZEN GUARDS. Still mopping， Ernie mutters to the nearest cell:
厄尼在拖地板，他回头看到了诺顿典狱长在十几个守卫的随从下来到牢房。厄尼一边拖地，一边小声告之最近的号房：
ERNIE厄尼
Heads up. They‘re tossin‘ cells. “当心！他们查狱来了。”
Word travels fast from cell to cell. Cons scramble to tidy up and hide things. Norton enters， nods to his men. The guards pair off in all directions， making their choices at random.
消息迅速在各个牢房传开，犯人们急忙收拾着、藏着东西。诺顿走了过来，点头示意他的随从们。守卫们组对各自散开，任意地随机抽查。
GUARD守卫
What kind‘a contraband you hiding in there， boy？ “你在那儿藏了什么违禁品，小子？”
Cells are opened， occupants displaced， items scattered， mattresses overturned. Whatever contraband is found gets tossed out onto the cellblock floor. Mostly harmless stuff. A GUARD pulls a sharpened screwdriver out of a mattress， shoots a nasty look at the CON responsible.
牢门打开，犯人们闪在一边，东西被散乱，床垫被掀开，无论找到什么样的违禁品，都扔到牢门外的地板上，大多是些无危险性的物品。一个守卫从床垫中抽出一把磨过的螺丝刀，恶狠狠地看了藏私的犯人一眼。
NORTON诺顿
Solitary. A week. Make sure he takes his Bible. “禁闭一周，确保他带着他的圣经。”
CON犯人
Too goddamn dark to read down there.“那见鬼的黑地方怎么看书呀！”
NORTON诺顿
Add another week for blasphemy. “口出恶言，加禁一周。”

The man is taken away. Norton‘s gaze goes up. 那个犯人被带走，诺顿仰头凝视。
NORTON诺顿
Let‘s try the second tier. “我们到二层看看。”
86 2ND TIER 86二层
Norton arrives， makes a thin show of picking a cell at random. He motions at Andy on his bunk， reading his Bible. The door is unlocked. Norton enters， trailed by his men. Andy rises.
诺顿走上来，随意的找牢房简单的搜查。他看到安迪，坐在他的铺上读圣经。牢门打开，诺顿走进来，后面跟着守卫，安迪站起身。
ANDY安迪
Good evening. “晚上好。”
Norton gives a curt nod. Hadley and Trout start tossing the cell in a thorough search. Norton keeps his eyes on Andy， looking for a wrong glance or nervous blink. He takes the Bible out of Andy‘s hand.
诺顿稍点了一下头，哈雷和特劳特开始彻底的翻腾这间牢房。诺顿盯着安迪，等着看到一丝慌乱或紧张。他从安迪手中拿走圣经。
NORTON诺顿
I‘m pleased to see you reading this. Any favorite passages？ “很高兴看到你在读它，喜欢哪段？”
ANDY安迪
"Watch ye therefore， for ye know not when the master of the house cometh."
“所以汝当警醒，因不知屋主何时到来。”
NORTON诺顿
（smiles） Luke. Chapter 13， verse 35. I‘ve always liked that one.
（微笑）“路可福音，第13章35节。我一直很喜欢这段。（strolls the cell）（在牢房里踱步）But I prefer: "I am the light of the world. He that followeth me shall not walk in darkness， but shall have the light of life."
但我更喜欢：’我是世界之光，跟随我的人不会行于黑暗，还会拥有生命之光。”
ANDY安迪
John. Chapter 8， verse 12. “约翰福音，第八章12节。”
NORTON诺顿
I hear you‘re good with numbers. How nice. A man should have a skill.
“我听说你对数字很在行，很好！人应有专长。”
HADLEY哈雷
You wanna explain this？ “这是怎么回事？”
Andy glances over. Hadley is holding up a rock blanket， a polishing cloth roughly the size of an oven mitt.
安迪瞥了一眼，哈雷拿着一个石垫--用来磨光石头的布，约有烤箱手套那么大。
ANDY安迪
It‘s called a rock blanket. It‘s for shaping and polishing rocks. Little hobby of mine.
“这是石垫，用来打磨石头的，我的小嗜好。”
Hadley glances at the rocks lining the window sill， turns to Norton.
哈雷看看窗台上排着的石头，转向诺顿。
HADLEY哈雷
Looks pretty clean. Some contraband here， nothing to get in a twist over.
“看起来很干净。有些违禁品，但并无大碍。”
Norton nods， strolls to the poster of Rita. 诺顿点点头，走到丽塔的海报前。
NORTON诺顿
I can‘t say I approve of this…… （turns to Andy） ……but I suppose exceptions can always be made.
“这我可不同意……（转向安迪）……但我想凡事必有例外。”
Norton exits， the guards follow. The cell door is slammed and locked. Norton pauses， turns back.
诺顿离开，守卫们跟着。牢门砰地一声锁上。诺顿停了下，转过身。
NORTON诺顿
I almost forgot. “我差点忘了。”
He reaches through the bars and returns the Bible to Andy. 他通过栅栏把圣经还给安迪。
NORTON诺顿
I‘d hate to deprive you of this. Salvation lies within.
“我可不想把它从你这儿拿走，得救之道就在其中。”
Norton and his men walk away. 诺顿同他的随从们走了。
RED （V.O.）瑞德（旁白）
Tossin‘ cells was just an excuse. Truth is， Norton wanted to size Andy up.
“搜查牢房只是个借口，其实，诺顿是想打量一下安迪。”
87 INT -- PRISON LAUNDRY -- DAY （1949） 87 内景---- 洗衣房 -- 白天
Andy is working the line. Hadley enters and confers briefly with Bob. Bob nods， crosses to Andy， taps him. Andy turns， removes an earplug. Bob shouts over the machine noise:
安迪在工作线上干活，哈雷走进来，简短的与鲍伯谈了一下。鲍伯点点头，走到安迪跟前，拍拍安迪。安迪转过身把耳塞拔掉。鲍伯大声说话以盖住机器的噪音：
BOB鲍伯
DUFRESNE! YOU‘RE OFF THE LINE! “杜弗兰！离开工作线。”
88 INT -- WARDEN NORTON‘S OFFICE -- DAY （1949） 88 内景--诺顿的办公室--白天
Andy is led in. Norton is at his desk doing paperwork. Andy‘s eyes go to a framed needle-point sampler on the wall behind him that reads: "HIS JUDGMENT COMETH AND THAT RIGHT SOON."
安迪被领进来，诺顿正在他的桌子上批文。安迪看到他身后的墙上挂着副花边外框的刺绣，上面绣着：’主的审判马上就会到来。’
NORTON诺顿
My wife made that in church group. “我妻子在教会做的。”
ANDY安迪
It‘s very pretty， sir. “它很漂亮，先生。”
NORTON诺顿
You like working in the laundry？ “喜欢洗衣房的工作吗？”
ANDY安迪
No， sir. Not especially. “不，先生，不怎么喜欢。”
NORTON诺顿
Perhaps we can find something more befitting a man of your education.
“由于你的知识背景，也许我们能找到更适合你的工作。”
89 INT -- MAIN BUILDING -- STORAGE ROOMS -- DAY （1949） 内景 -- 主楼 -- 贮藏室
A series of bleak rooms stacked high with unused filing cabinets， desks， paint supplies， etc. Andy enters. He hears a FLUTTER OF WINGS. An adult crow lands on a filing cabinet and struts back and forth， checking him out. Andy smiles.
数间阴暗的屋子，未使用的文件柜、桌子、油漆等物品堆的高高的。安迪走了进来，他听到翅膀拍动的声音。一只大乌鸦落在文件柜上来回走着审视着他，安迪笑了。
ANDY安迪
Hey， Jake. Where‘s Brooks？ “嗨，杰克，布鲁克斯在哪儿？”
Brooks Hatlen pokes his head out of the back room. 布鲁克斯. 哈特伦从后屋伸出头来。
BROOKS布鲁克斯
Andy! Thought I heard you out here! “安迪！我想我听到你来了！”
ANDY安迪
I‘ve been reassigned to you. “我被派到你这儿啦！”
BROOKS布鲁克斯
I know， they told me. Ain‘t that a kick in the ass？ Come on in， I‘ll give you the dime tour.
“我知道，他们告诉我啦，是被踢过来的吧？进来，我带你转转。”

90 INT -- SHAWSHANK PRISON LIBRARY -- DAY （1949） 90内景--监狱图书馆--白天
Brooks leads Andy into the bleakest back room of all. Rough plank shelves are lined with books. Brooks‘ private domain.
布鲁克斯带着安迪走到最阴暗的那间里屋，粗糙的木板架上排着书，这是布鲁克斯的私人领地。
BROOKS布鲁克斯
Here she is， the Shawshank Prison Library. Along this side， we got the National Geographics. That
side， the Reader‘s Digest Condensed books. Bottom shelf there， some Louis L‘Amours and Erle Stanley Gardners. Every night I pile the cart and make my rounds. I write down the names on this clipboard here. Well， that‘s it. Easy， peasy， Japanesey（q11）. Any questions？
“就是这儿了，肖申克监狱图书馆。这边，是国家地理。那边，是读者文摘精简本。书架底部有些路易斯.L阿摩尔和厄尔.斯坦利.加德纳的。每天晚上我都会把书装到小推车上，然后巡游。我把名字记到这个板子上，嗯，就这样。轻松、简单、Japanesey，还有问题吗？”
Andy pauses. Something about this doesn‘t make any sense.
安迪停下来，他到这里来并没有什么意义。
ANDY安迪
Brooks？ How long have you been librarian？ “布鲁克斯，你在图书室多久了？”
BROOKS布鲁克斯
Since 1912. Yuh， over 37 years. “从1912年起，嗯，有37年多了。”
ANDY安迪
In all that time， have you ever had an assistant？ “这么长的时间里，你有过助手吗？”
BROOKS布鲁克斯
Never needed one. Not much to it， is there？ “从未需要过，这儿又不忙，对吧？”
ANDY安迪
So why now？ Why me？ “那为什么现在需要？为什么是我？”
BROOKS布鲁克斯
I dunno. Be nice to have some comp‘ny down here for a change.
“不知道，不过有个伙伴来改变一下，也挺好的。”
HADLEY （O.S.）哈雷
Dufresne! “杜弗兰！”
Andy steps back into the outer rooms and finds Hadley with another GUARD， a huge fellow named DEKINS.
安迪走到外屋，看到哈雷和另外一个守卫，一个高大魁梧的家伙，叫戴肯。
HADLEY哈雷
That‘s him. That‘s the one. “就是他，他就是那个人。”
Hadley exits. Dekins approaches Andy ominously. Andy stands his ground， waiting for whatever comes next. Finally:
哈雷出去了，戴肯不祥地接近安迪。安迪站在地上，等着，不知最终会发生什么。
DEKINS戴肯
I‘m Dekins. I been， uh， thinkin‘ ‘bout maybe settin‘ up some kinda trust fund for my kids‘ educations.
“我是戴肯，我一直在考虑，也许我应该给我的孩子受教办个信任基金。”
Andy covers his surprise. Glances at Brooks. Brooks smiles.
安迪掩饰住他的惊诧，看了布鲁克斯一眼，布鲁克斯微笑着。
ANDY安迪
I see. Well. Why don‘t we have a seat and talk it over？
“我明白了，嗯，我们为什么不坐下来谈呢？”
BROOKS Pull down one‘a them desks there. Andy and Dekins grab a desk standing on end and tilt it to the floor. They find chairs and settle in. Brooks returns with a tablet of paper and a pen， slides them before Andy.
布鲁克斯提醒他们那有桌子，安迪和戴肯从最一头弄过来一张，放在地上，并找来椅子，坐了下来。布鲁克斯拿过来笔和纸。
ANDY安迪
What did you have in mind？ A weekly draw on your pay？
“你有什么想法？每到领周薪的时候交一次么？”
DEKINS戴肯
Yuh. I figured just stick it in the bank， but Captain Hadley said check with you first.
“是的。我想让银行来打理，但哈雷队长说先找你咨询一下。”
ANDY安迪
He was right. You don‘t want your money in a bank. “他说的对，你可不想把钱交给银行里。”
DEKINS戴肯
I don‘t？ “我不想？”
ANDY安迪
What‘s that gonna earn you？ Two and a half， three percent a year？ We can do a lot better than that.
（wets his pen） So tell me， Mr. Dekins. Where do you want to send your kids？ Harvard？ Yale？
“那会用你很多钱的！二倍半，一年百分之三！我们有更好的办法。（把笔蘸上墨水）戴肯先生，你想把孩子送到哪儿？哈佛？耶鲁？”
92 INT -- MESS HALL -- DAY （1949） 92内景--食堂--白天
FLOYD弗洛伊德
He didn‘t say that! “他不会那么说的！”
BROOKS布鲁克斯
God is my witness. And Dekins， he just blinks for a second， then laughs his ass off. Afterward， he
actually shook Andy‘s hand.
“上帝作证。戴肯眨眨眼睛，然后傻笑起来。后来，他实际上还与安迪握手了呢！”
HEYWOOD海沃德
My ass! “我的天！”
BROOKS布鲁克斯
Shook his fuckin‘ hand. Just about shit myself. All Andy needed was a suit and tie， a jiggly little hula girl on his desk， he would‘a been Mister Dufresne， if you please.
“他摇着他的手，我都差点尿了。只要在配上一套衣服和领带，一个迷人的夏威夷灰姑娘，你们看，安迪就是杜弗兰先生啦！劳驾。”
RED瑞德
Makin‘ yourself some friends， Andy. “你开始交朋友了，安迪？”
ANDY安迪
I wouldn‘t say "friends." I‘m a convicted murderer who provides sound financial planning. That‘s a
wonderful pet to have.
“我可不会说那是’朋友’。我是一个犯了罪的杀人犯，可以提供不错的经济策划，极好的宠物而已。”
RED瑞德
Got you out of the laundry， didn‘t it？ “你不用再去洗衣服了，对吧？”
ANDY安迪
Maybe it can do more than that. （off their looks） How about expanding the library？ Get some new books in there.
“也许还能多做点事情。（看看他们的表情）把图书馆扩大怎么样？多弄些书来。”
HEYWOOD海沃德
How you ‘spect to do that， "Mr. Dufresne-if-you-please？"
“怎么会那么想？’杜弗兰先生，劳驾。’”
ANDY安迪
Ask the warden for funds. “我要找狱长要资金。”
LAUGHTER all around. Andy blinks at them. 大家大笑起来，安迪吃惊的看着他们。
BROOKS布鲁克斯
Son， I‘ve had six wardens through here during my tenure， and I have learned one great immutable truth of the universe: ain‘t one of ‘em been born whose asshole don‘t pucker up tight as a snare drum when you ask for funds.

“孩子，在这儿我已经经历过6个狱长啦！这样，我知道了一个百颠不破的宇宙真理：当你要钱的时候，没有一个不会把他们的屁眼绷的像小军鼓一样紧的。”
93 INT -- MAIN BUILDING HALLWAY -- DAY （1949） 93外景--主楼走廊―白天
DOLLYING Norton and Andy up the hall: 镜头由上移到诺顿和安迪的的身上。
NORTON诺顿
Not a dime. My budget‘s stretched thin as it is. “一毛钱也没有。我的预算太紧。”
ANDY安迪
I see. Perhaps I could write to the State Senate and request funds directly from them.
“我想。也许我可以致信给州参议院，直接从他们那儿请求这笔资金。”
NORTON诺顿
Far as them Republican boys in Augusta are concerned， there‘s only three ways to spend the taxpayer‘s hard-earned when it come to prisons. More walls. More bars. More guards.
“那帮奥古斯塔（缅因州首府）的共和党人才不会关心呢！监狱想得到纳税人的辛苦钱只有三种理由，更高的墙、更多的栅栏、更多的卫兵。”
ANDY安迪
Still， I‘d like to try， with your permission. I‘ll send a letter a week. They can‘t ignore me forever.
“可我仍想试试，您允许的话。我一星期一封信，他们不会永远不理我的。”
NORTON诺顿
They sure can， but you write your letters if it makes you happy. I‘ll even mail ‘em for you， how‘s that？
“他们当然会。但你要觉得好的话，就写你的信好了。甚至我可以帮你寄信，怎么样？”
94 INT -- ANDY‘S CELL -- NIGHT （1949） 94内景―安迪的号房―夜晚
Andy is on his bunk， writing a letter. 安迪在他的铺上写信。
RED （V.O.）瑞德（旁白）
So Andy started writing a letter a week， just like he said.
“安迪开始一星期一封信，正如他说的那样。”
4. GUARD DESK/NORTON‘S OUTER OFFICE--DAY内景―办公桌/诺顿外办公室―白天
Andy pops his head in. The GUARD shakes his head. 安迪探头进去，守卫摇摇头。
RED （V.O.）瑞德（旁白）
And just like Norton said， Andy got no answers. But still he kept on.
“正如诺顿所言，安迪没有得到回应，但他继续。”
5. PRISON LIBRARY/ANDY‘S OFFICE -- DAY （1950）内景--监狱图书馆/安迪的办公室―白天
Andy is doing taxes. Mert Entwhistle is seated across from him. Other off-duty guards are waiting their turn.
安迪在做纳税的账目，莫特做在他的面前，其它不当班的守卫都在等着。
RED （V.O.）瑞德（旁白）
The following April， Andy did tax returns for half the guards at Shawshank.
“第二个五月份，安迪为肖申克监狱的一半守卫都做了税目。”
97 INT -- PRISON LIBRARY -- ONE YEAR LATER （1951） 97内景―图书馆―一年后
Tax time again. Even more guards are waiting. “纳税时间到了，更多的守卫等着。”
RED （V.O.）瑞德（旁白）
Year after that， he did them all…… including the warden‘s.
“一年后，所有人的账他都做了，包括典狱长。”
98 EXT -- BASEBALL DIAMOND -- DAY （1952） 98外景―棒球场―白天
A BATTER in a "Noresby Marauders" baseball uniform WHACKS the ball high into left field and races for first.
一个穿着印有’摩斯拜掠夺者’棒球服的击球手猛得将球击向左边的场地并开始首跑。
RED （V.O.）瑞德（旁白）
Year after that， they rescheduled the start of the intramural season to coincide with tax season……
“一年后，他们重新制订内部赛季的开始，以与税期相符。”
6. PRISON LIBRARY/ANDY‘S OFFICE -- DAY （1952） 99内景―图书馆/安迪办公室―白天
The Batter sits across from Andy. The line winds out the door.
那个击球手坐在安迪面前，队伍一直排到门外。
RED （V.O.）瑞德（旁白）
The guards on the opposing teams all remembered to bring their W-2‘s.
“另一方的卫兵们都记着带税单。”
ANDY安迪
Moresby Prison issued you that gun， but you actually had to pay for it？
“摩斯拜监狱给你配的枪，但实际上你为此纳税？”
THE BATTER击球手
Damn right， and the holster too. “可不是嘛！枪套也是。”
ANDY安迪
See， that‘s all deductible. You get to write that off. “你看，这都是可以免税的，你把这个注销。”
RED （V.O.）瑞德（旁白）
Yes sir， Andy was a regular H&R Block. In fact， he got so busy at tax time， he was allowed a staff.
“是的，安迪就如同H&R Block（税收公司）。实际上，他是如此之忙，在税期的时候都可以要助手的。”
ANGLE SHIFTS to reveal Red and Brooks doing filing chores.
镜头转向瑞德和布鲁克斯在做些整理文档的杂活。
ANDY安迪
Say Red， could you hand me a stack of those 1040s？
“喂，瑞德，给我拿叠1040s（税单种类）的表格来。”
RED （V.O.）瑞德（旁白）
Got me out of the wood shop a month out of the year， and that was fine by me.
“我可以从木材厂出来一个月，这对我来说好极了。”
7. GUARD DESK/NORTON‘S OUTER OFFICE -- DAY 内景―办公桌/诺顿外办公室―白天
Andy enters and drops a letter on the outgoing stack. 安迪进去在要发出的信堆上放下一封信。
RED （V.O.）瑞德
And still he kept sending those letters…… “安迪仍然继续寄信。”
101 INT -- ANDY‘S CELL -- NIGHT （1953） 101内景―安迪的号房―夜晚
Dark. Andy‘s in his bunk， polishing a four-inch length of quartz. It‘s a beautifully-crafted chess piece in the shape of a horse‘s head， poise and nobility captured in gleaming stone. He puts the knight on a chess board by his bed， adding it to four pieces already there: a king， a queen， and two bishops. He turns to Rita. Moonlight casts bars across her face.
黑夜，安迪在他铺上打磨一块四英寸长的石英。一枚手工很好的马头形状的棋子，夜光石制成，宁静而高贵。他把骑士放到床边的棋盘上，那儿已经有四枚棋子了：王、后和两个象。他转身对着瑞塔，月光把栅影映在他的脸上。
102 EXT -- EXERCISE YARD -- DAY （1954） 102外景―操场―白天
Floyd runs into the yard， scared and winded. He finds Andy and Red on the bleachers.
费洛伊德跑进操场，叫喊着挥着手臂，他在看台上发现了安迪和瑞德。
FLOYD费洛伊德
Red？ Andy？ It‘s Brooks. “瑞德！安迪！布鲁克斯出事啦！”
we all know that. Even Heywood knows it， right Heywood？
“布鲁克斯，你不会伤害海沃德的，我们都知道，即使是海沃德本人，对吗，海沃德？”
HEYWOOD海沃德
（nods， terrified） Sure. I know that. Sure. （点点头，吓坏了）“当然，我当然知道。”
ANDY安迪
Why？ Ask anyone， they‘ll tell you. Brooks Hatlen is a reasonable man.
“怎么回事？问谁谁都会说布鲁克斯.哈特兰是一个通情理的人。”

RED瑞德
（cuing nods all around） Yeah， that‘s right. That‘s what everybody says.
（来来回地点头）“是呀，是这样，人人都这么说的。”
ANDY安迪
You‘re not fooling anybody， so just put the damn knife down and stop scaring the shit out of people.
“你并不是在骗人，所以你应该把刀子放下，别再吓唬人啦！”
BROOKS布鲁克斯
But it‘s the only way they‘ll let me stay. “但是，这是我唯一能留下来的办法。”
Brooks bursts into tears. The storm is over. Heywood staggers free， gasping for air. Andy takes the knife， passes it to Red. Brooks dissolves into Andy‘s arms with great heaving sobs.
布鲁克斯突然哭了起来。没事了，海沃德被放开，蹒跚着、大口地喘着气。安迪拿过刀子，递给瑞德，布鲁克斯倒在安迪的怀里痛哭起来。
ANDY安迪
Take it easy. You‘ll be all right. “放松些，没事了。”
HEYWOOD海沃德
Him？ What about me？ Crazy old fool! Goddamn near slit my throat!
“他没事啦？那我呢！老疯子！差点割开我的喉咙！”
RED瑞德
You‘ve had worse from shaving. What‘d you do to set him off？
“刮胡子都比你那儿伤的厉害。你怎么惹着他了？”
HEYWOOD海沃德
Nothin‘! Just came in to say fare-thee-well. （off their looks） Ain‘t you heard？ His parole came
through!
“没有！只是来跟他告别。（看着他们的表情）你们没听说吗？他的假释批准了。”
Red and Andy exchange a surprised look. Andy wants to understand. Red just motions to let it be for now. He puts his arm around Brooks， who sobs inconsolably. Softly:
瑞德与安迪惊奇地相互看了一眼，安迪想知道为什么，瑞德示意别问。他轻轻搂住痛哭中的布鲁克斯：
RED瑞德
Ain‘t that bad， old hoss. Won‘t be long till you‘re squiring pretty young girls on your arm and telling ‘em lies.
“没那么坏，老伙计。很快你就能挎着小妞对着她们说甜言蜜语啦。”
104 EXT -- PRISON YARD BLEACHERS -- DUSK （1954） 104 外景―操场看台―傍晚
ANDY安迪
I just don‘t understand what happened in there， that‘s all.
“我真不明白是怎么回事，真不明白。”
HEYWOOD海沃德
Old man‘s crazy as a rat in a tin shithouse， is what.
“那老头疯得像屎罐子里的老鼠，就这么回事。”
RED瑞德
Heywood， enough. Ain‘t nothing wrong with Brooksie. He‘s just institutionalized， that‘s all.
“海沃德，够了。布鲁克斯没什么事，他只是被制度化了，就这样。”
HEYWOOD海沃德
Institutionalized， my ass. “制度化，去它的吧。”
RED瑞德
Man‘s been here fifty years. This place is all he knows. In here， he‘s an important man， an educated
man. A librarian. Out there， he‘s nothing but a used-up old con with arthritis in both hands. Couldn‘t even get a library card if he applied. You see what I‘m saying？
“他已经在这儿55年了，他只知道这个地方。在这里，他是一个重要的人，一个受过教育的人，图书管理员。可在外面，他只是个双手患着关节炎的老囚徒！甚至都申请不到一张借书证，你知道我的意思么？”
FLOYD弗洛伊德
Red， I do believe you‘re talking out of your ass. “瑞德，我的确认为你说的是屁话。”
RED瑞德
Believe what you want. These walls are funny. First you hate ‘em， then you get used to ‘em. After long enough， you get so you depend on ‘em. That‘s "institutionalized."
“你愿意怎么认为就怎么认为。这些高墙很有趣的，一开始你恨它，然后你逐渐习惯，等时间足够长的时候，你就该依靠它了。这就是’制度化’。”
JIGGER齐格尔
Shit. I could never get that way. “妈的，我绝不会那样的。”
ERNIE厄尼
（softly） Say that when you been inside as long as Brooks has.
（轻轻地）“等你呆到布鲁克斯那么长的时候再说这话吧。”
RED瑞德
Goddamn right. They send you here for life， and that‘s just what they take. Part that counts， anyway.
“没错！他们把你送到这儿生活，于是他们就拿走了生活，至少是一部分。”
105 EXT -- SHAWSHANK PRISON -- DAWN （1954） 105外景―肖申克监狱―黎明
The sun rises over gray stone. 太阳从灰色的岩石上升起。
106 INT -- ANDY‘S CELL -- DAWN （1954） 106内景―安迪的号房―黎明
ANGLE ON RITA POSTER. Sexy as ever. The rising sun sends fingers of rosy light creeping across her face.
镜头冲着丽塔的海报，玫瑰色的曙光轻轻爬过她的脸庞，性感超常。
107 INT -- LIBRARY -- DAWN （1954） 107内景―图书馆―黎明
Brooks stands on a chair， poised at the bars of a window， cradling Jake in his hands.
布鲁克斯站在一把椅子上，在窗口的栅栏前踌躇，手里握着杰克。
BROOKS布鲁克斯
I can‘t take care of you no more. You go on now. You‘re free.
“我不能再照顾你啦，走吧，你自由了。”
He tosses Jake through the bars. The crow flaps away.
他把杰克往栏外一扔，它拍着翅膀飞走了。
8. EXT -- SHAWSHANK PRISON -- MAIN GATE -- DAY （1954） 外景―肖申克监狱大门―白天
TWO SHORT SIREN BLASTS herald the opening of the gate. It swings hugely open， revealing Brooks standing in his cheap suit， carrying a cheap bag， wearing a cheap hat. Brooks walks out， tears streaming down his face. He looks back. Red， Andy， and others stand at the inner fence， seeing him off. The massive gate closes， wiping them from view.
随着两声急促的警报，大门打开，它剧烈地摇晃着，显现出站在那儿的布鲁克斯，他穿着廉价的西服，拿着廉价的皮包，戴着廉价的帽子。布鲁克斯走出大门，眼泪从脸上滑落。他向后望去，瑞德、安迪等人站在围栏内目送着他。大门沉重的关上，他们从视线中消失。
109 INT -- BUS -- DAY （1954） 109内景―公车―白天
Brooks is riding the bus， clutching the seat before him， gripped by terror of speed and motion.
布鲁克斯乘着公车，他抓住前面的座位，由于害怕汽车的速度和运动，十分紧张。
BROOKS （V.O.） 布鲁克斯（旁白）
Dear Fellas. I can‘t believe how fast things move on the outside.
“亲爱的伙计们，我无法相信外面的东西怎么跑的这么快！”
9. EXT -- STREET -- PORTLAND， MAINE -- DAY （1954） 外景―缅因州波特兰大街―白天
Brooks looks like a kid trying to cross the street without his parents. People and traffic a blur.
布鲁克斯就像个没有父母领着的孩子在过马路，忙暇不及街上的行人和车辆。
BROOKS （V.O.）布鲁克斯
I saw an automobile once when I was young. Now they‘re everywhere.
“小时，我只见过一次汽车。但现在，它们到处都是。”
111 EXT -- BREWSTER HOTEL -- DAY （1954） 111外景―布鲁斯特旅馆―白天
Brooks comes trudging up the sidewalk. He glances up as a prop-driven airliner streaks in low overhead.
布鲁克斯吃力的走在人行道上，一架飞机在低空急驶而过，他慌张的瞥了一眼。
BROOKS （V.O.）布鲁克斯（旁白）
The world went and got itself in a big damn hurry. “整个世界都在拼了命的忙着。”

He arrives at the Brewster. It ain‘t much to look at.
他到了布鲁斯特旅馆，很不起眼的一家旅舍。
112 INT -- BREWSTER HOTEL -- DAY （1954） 112内景―布鲁斯特旅馆―白天
A WOMAN leads Brooks up the stairs toward the top floor. He has trouble climbing so many stairs.
一个女人带着布鲁克斯上到顶楼，对他来说台阶很多，上起来十分吃力。
WOMAN女人
No music in your room after eight p.m. No guests after nine. No cooking except on the hotplate……
“晚上八点后不要放音乐，九点后不许有客人拜访，不能再烤盘以外的地方做饭。”
BROOKS （V.O.）布鲁克斯（旁白）
People even talk faster. And louder. “甚至连人们说话的速度都很快，声音也更大。”
113 INT -- BROOKS‘ ROOM -- DAY （1954） 113内景―布鲁克斯的房间―白天
Brooks enters. The room is small， old， dingy. Heavy wooden beams cross the ceiling. An arched window affords a view of Congress Street. Traffic noise drifts in. Brooks sets his bag down. He doesn‘t quite know what to do. He just stands there， like a man waiting for a bus.
布鲁克斯走进来，房间很小，即破旧又肮脏。粗大的房梁横在天花板，透过一扇拱形的窗户，可以看到议会大街，街上的的喧哗声涌进来，布鲁克斯把包放下，不知道该做些什么。他站在那儿，就像在等公共汽车。
BROOKS （V.O.）布鲁克斯（旁白）
The parole board got me into this halfway house called the Brewster， and a job bagging groceries at the Foodway……
假释官们把我放到这座叫布鲁斯特的临时住所，还有一份在福德威超市装食品袋的工作。
114 INT -- FOODWAY MARKET -- DAY （1954） 114内景―福德威超市―白天
Loud. Jangling with PEOPLE and NOISE. Brooks is bagging groceries. Registers are humming， kids are shrieking.
在纷乱的喧哗声下，布鲁克斯正在装食品袋，计价器嗡嗡的响着，孩子们大声的叫着。
WOMAN女人
Make sure he double-bags. Last time your man didn‘t double-bag and the bottom near came out.
“一定要用两个袋子，上次你们就用了一个，底儿差点就破了。”
MANAGER经理
You double-bag like the lady says， understand？ “依照那位女士说的用双袋，明白了吗？”
BROOKS布鲁克斯
Yes sir， double-bag， surely will. “是的，先生。双袋，当然。”
BROOKS （V.O.）布鲁克斯（旁白）
It‘s hard work. I try to keep up， but my hands hurt most of the time. I don‘t think the store manager
likes me very much.
“这是份困难的工作，我努力坚持，可我的手老是在疼。我想那经理并不喜欢我。”
115 EXT -- PARK -- DAY （1954） 115外景―公园―白天
Brooks sits alone on a bench， feeding pigeons. 布鲁克斯独自坐长椅上，喂鸽子。
BROOKS （V.O.）布鲁克斯（旁白）
Sometimes after work I go to the park and feed the birds. I keep thinking Jake might show up and say hello， but he never does. I hope wherever he is， he‘s doing okay and making new friends.
“有时，下班后我会去公园喂鸟，我想像着杰克能飞过来说哈喽，但它从未来过。我希望无论他在哪儿都很好，还交上了新的朋友。”
116 INT -- BROOKS‘ ROOM -- NIGHT （1954） 116内景―布鲁克斯的房间―夜晚
Dark. Traffic outside. Brooks wakes up. Disoriented. Afraid. Somewhere in the night， a LOUD ARGUMENT is taking place.
黑暗。外面是行人车辆。布鲁克斯醒来，迷惑又害怕。深夜的某处，有人在大声争吵。
BROOKS （V.O.）：：布鲁克斯（旁白）
I have trouble sleeping at night. The bed is too big. I have bad dreams， like I‘m falling. I wake up scared. Sometimes it takes me a while to remember where I am.
“晚上我老是睡不着，床是那么大。我常做恶梦，梦到自己往下掉，然后吓醒。时常得花上一会功夫才记起我是谁。”
117 INT -- FOODWAY -- DAY （1954） 117内景―福德威―白天
BROOKS （V.O.）布鲁克斯（旁白）
Maybe I should get me a gun and rob the Foodway， so they‘d send me home. I could shoot the manager while I was at it， sort of like a bonus.
“也许我该弄把枪把福德威劫了，这样他们就能送我回家了。那时，我要枪击经理，这是附带的好处。”
118 INT -- BROOKS‘ ROOM -- DAY （1954） 118内景―布鲁克斯的房间―白天
Brooks is packing his worldly possessions into the carry bag. Undershirts， socks， etc.
布鲁克斯正在把他所有的家当塞进包里，内衣、袜子等等。
BROOKS （V.O.）布鲁克斯（旁白）
But I guess I‘m too old for that sort of nonsense anymore.
“但我想我已经老的不能再那样胡闹了。”
119 INT -- BROOKS‘ ROOM -- SHORTLY LATER （1954） 内景―布鲁克斯的房间―不一会儿
Brooks is dressed in his suit. He finishes knotting his tie， puts his hat on his head. The letter lies on the desk， stampe3 and ready for mailing. His bag is by the door.
“布鲁克斯穿上了西装，打好了领带，戴上帽子。桌子上放着封信，贴着邮票准备寄出，他的包放在门口。”
BROOKS （V.O.）布鲁克斯（旁白）
I don‘t like it here. I‘m tired of being afraid all the time. I‘ve decided not to stay.
“我不喜欢这儿，老是害怕，让我感到很累，我决定离开。”
He takes one last look around. Only one thing left to do. He steps to a wooden chair in the center of the room， pulls out s pocketknife， and glances up at the ceiling beam.
他最后看了一眼周围，只剩下一件事情要做了。
He steps up onto the chair. It wobbles queasily. Now facing the beam， he carves a message into the wood: "Brooks Hatlen was here." He smiles with a sort of inner peace.
他站到椅子上，椅子被踩地颤动起来。面对着房梁，他刻下了一行字：“布鲁克斯.哈特兰曾经到此。”他微微的笑了起来。
BROOKS （V.O.）布鲁克斯（旁白）
I doubt they‘ll kick up any fuss. Not for an old crook like me.
“我怀疑会引起他们的慌张，像我这样的家伙，他们是不会的。”
120 TIGHT ON CHAIR 120重压下的椅子
His weight shifts on the wobbly chair -- and it goes out from under him. His feet remain where they are， kicking feebly in mid-air. His hat falls to the floor.
他用身体的重量推动摇晃的椅子―椅子被推开。脚还留在原地，无力的在半空中蹬着，帽子坠落到地板上。
ANGLE WIDENS. Brooks has hanged himself. He swings gently， facing the open window. Traffic noise floats up from below.
镜头拉宽，布鲁克斯上吊了。身体轻轻的晃着，面朝着窗户，街上的嘈杂声从下面浮了上来。
121 EXT -- EXERCISE YARD -- SHAWSHANK -- DAY （1954） 121外景―操场―白天
Andy reads the letter to Red and the others:
安迪给瑞德和大家读着信：
ANDY安迪
P.S. Tell Heywood I‘m sorry I put a knife to his throat. No hard feelings.
“另外，告诉海沃德，我很抱歉把刀架在他的脖子上，我无意伤害他的。”
A long silence. Andy folds the letter， puts it away. Softly:
长长的寂静，安迪把信折起，轻轻地放好。
RED瑞德
He should‘a died in here， goddamn it. “他一定死在那儿了，见鬼！”
122 INT -- PRISON LIBRARY -- DAY （1954） 122内景―图书馆―白天
Andy is sorting books on the cart. He replaces a stack on the shelf -- and pauses， noticing a line of ants crawling up the wood. He glances up. The ants disappear over the top. He pulls a chair over and stands on it， peers cautiously over.
安迪在整理推车上的书，他在更换书架上的一摞书―他停了下来，注意到一行蚂蚁正在木头上往上爬。他抬起头看，蚂蚁消失在顶端。他拉过来把椅子站到上面，仔细地观察。
ANDY安迪
Red! “瑞德”
Red steps in with an armload of files. Andy gingerly reaches in， grabs a black feathered wing， and pulls out a dead crow.
瑞德胳膊夹着文件走了进来，安迪小心的走近，抓着一只黑色的羽翅，他拖出一只死乌鸦。

RED （softly）瑞德（轻轻地）
Is that Jake？ “是杰克吗？”
123 INT -- WOOD SHOP -- DAY （1954） 123内景―木材厂―白天
Red is making something at his bench， sanding and planing.
瑞德在他的长凳上做东西，边打磨边设计。
RED （V.O.）瑞德（旁白）
It never would have occurred to us， if not for Andy. It was his idea. We all agreed it was the right
thing to do……
“如果安迪没有想到，我们永远也想不到。这是他的主意。我们都认为这样做是对的。”
124 EXT -- FIELDS -- DAY （1954） 124外景―田地―白天
Low hilly terrain all around. A HUNDRED CONS are at work in the fields. GUARDS patrol with carbines， keeping a sharp eye. We find Andy， Red， and the boys working with picks and shovels. They glance over to the pickup truck. Hadley‘s chewing the fat with Mert and Youngblood. A WHISTLE BLOWS.
到处都是丘岭，一百多个犯人正在田地上工作。守卫们拿着卡宾枪巡逻，严密的监视着干活的犯人。安迪、瑞德他们拿着镐和锨在干活，他们不时瞥一眼停在那儿的卡车。哈雷和摩特与杨伯拉德则在一起嚼舌头，哨声响起。
GUARD守卫
Water break! Five minutes! “喝水时间！五分钟！”
The work stops. Cons head for the pickup truck， where water is dispensed with dipper and pail. Red and the boys look to Andy. Andy nods. Now‘s the time. The group moves off through the confusion， using it as cover. They head up the slope of a nearby hill and quickly decide on a suitable spot. The guards haven‘t noticed.
犯人们停止干活，走向卡车，水在那儿用长勺和桶分发。瑞德他们看看安迪，安迪点点头。是时候了！他们利用混乱，穿过人群。他们走到附近的一个山丘的斜坡，找到一块合适的地方，守卫们并没注意到。
Jigger and Floyd start swinging picks into the soft earth， quickly ripping out a hole. Red reaches into his jacket and pulls out a beautiful wooden box， carefully stained and varnished. He shows it around to nods of approval.
齐格尔和弗洛伊德开始挥镐锄土，迅速的挖出一个洞来。瑞德从夹克里取出一个漂亮的木盒，被用心的上了色和涂了漆。他让大家看看，大家点头称赞。
ANDY安迪
That‘s real pretty， Red. Nice work. “真漂亮！瑞德，干得好！”
HEYWOOD海沃德
Shovel man in. Watch the dirt. “铁锨人来啦，看我的吧。”
124 CONTINUED 124
Heywood jumps in and starts spading out the hole. 海沃德跳进去开始住洞外铲土。
125 BY THE TRUCK 125卡车旁
Youngblood glances up and sees the men on the slope. 杨伯拉德抬起头看到斜坡上的人们。
YOUNGBLOOD杨伯拉德
What the fuck. “怎么搞的？”
HADLEY （follows his gaze）哈雷（随着他的眼光望去）
HEY.‘ YOU MEN UP THERE.‘ GET YOUR ASSES OFF THAT SLOPE!
“嗨！在那儿的人马上从斜坡上给我滚下来！”
（works his rifle bolt） （他拉上枪栓）
YOU HAPPY ASSHOLES GONE DEAF？ YOU GOT FIVE SECONDS ‘FORE I SHOOT SOMEBODY!
“你们这些快乐的王八蛋聋了吗？给你们五秒钟，否则我就开枪了！”
Suddenly， other cons start breaking away in groups， dozens of them heading toward the slope. The guards look around.
突然，其他的犯人们分散开来，有十几个人向斜坡走去，守卫们四处张望。
HADLEY哈雷
What am I， talkin‘ to myself？ “我在跟自己说话吗？”
126 ON THE SLOPE 126斜坡上
Andy pulls a towel-wrapped bundle from his jacket and unfolds it. Jake. Andy lays him in the box， followed by Brook‘s letter. Red places the casket in the hole. A moment of silence. Andy gives Red with an encouraging nod.
安迪从夹克里取出一个用毛巾裹着的包，打开。是杰克。安迪把它放到盒子里，随后是布鲁克斯的信。接着，安迪把匣子放进洞里。沉寂了一会儿，安迪点头鼓励瑞德。
RED瑞德
Lord. Brooks was a sinner. Jake was just a crow. Neither was much to look at. Both got institutionalized. See what you can do for ‘em. Amen.
“主啊，布鲁克斯是个罪人，杰克只是个乌鸦。他们都无足轻重，同被制度所化。看看您能为他们做点什么吧，阿门。”
Muttered "amens" all around. The boys shovel dirt onto the small grave and tamp it down.
周围一片“阿门”的声音。人们把土填到这个小墓穴中，夯实。
127 INT -- SHAWSHANK CORRIDORS -- DAY （1955） 127内景―肖申克监狱走廊―白天
RAPID DOLLY with Hadley. He‘s striding， pissed-off， a man on emission. He straight-arms a door and emerges onto--
镜头跟着哈雷快速的移动。他大步走着，极其愤怒，一个要眼看要爆发的人。他伸手推开门走出来。
128 EXT -- SHAWSHANK PRISON WALL -- DAY （1955） 128 外景―监狱高墙―白天
-- the wall overlooking the exercise yard. He leans on the railing， scans the yard， sees Andy chatting with Red.
高墙俯瞰着操场。哈雷靠着扶栏，扫视，看见安迪在跟瑞德聊天。
HADLEY哈雷
Dufresne! What the fuck did you do？ （Andy looks up） Your ass， warden‘s office， now!
“杜弗兰！你他妈的做什么啦？（安迪抬头看）“你个混帐，典狱长办公室，快点！”
Andy shoots a worried look at Red， then heads off. 安迪担心的看了一眼瑞德，然后走了。
10. GUARD DESK/WARDEN‘S OUTER OFFICE -- DAY 内景―办公桌/诺顿外办公室―白天
Dozens of parcel boxes litter the floor. WILEY， the duty guard， picks through them. Hadley enters， trailed by Andy.
几十个包裹盒子散落在地板上，韦利，值班守卫，在挑捡信件。哈德进入，安迪跟着。
ANDY安迪
What is all this？ “这些是什么？”
HADLEY哈雷
You tell me， fuck-stick! They‘re addressed to you， every damn one!
“你告诉我，臭小子！都是寄给你的，全他妈的是！”
Wiley thrusts an envelope at Andy. Andy just stares at it.
韦利塞给安迪一个信封，安迪只是盯着看。
WILEY韦利
Well， take it. “喂，拿着。”
Andy takes the envelope， pulls out a letter， reads: 安迪接过信封，抽出信，念道：
ANDY安迪
"Dear Mr. Dufresne. In response to your repeated inquiries， the State Senate has allocated the enclosed funds for your library project……"
“亲爱的杜弗兰先生，为了答复您重复的请求，州议院已经拔款（信内附支票）给您的图书馆方案。”（stunned， examines check） （惊喜地看着支票）
This is two hundred dollars. 是两百美元。
Wiley grins. Hadley glares at him. The grin vanishes.
韦利咧嘴笑了起来，哈雷瞪他一眼，笑容消失。
ANDY安迪
"In addition， the Library District has generously responded with a charitable donation of used books and sundries. We trust this will fill your needs. We now consider the matter closed. Please stop sending us letters. Yours truly， the State Comptroller‘s Office."
“另外，图书馆议院区还提供了大量的捐赠来的旧书和一些杂物。我们相信这能满足您的需要。现在这件事已经结束，请不要再寄信给我们。”
Andy gazes around at the boxes. The riches of the world lay at his feet. His eyes mist with emotion at the sight.
安迪打量着这些包裹，世上的财富躺在他的脚下。看这些书，他的眼睛有些湿润了。
HADLEY哈雷
I want all this cleared out before the warden gets back， I shit you not.
“典狱长回来之前，所有的东西都得清理出去，否则有你好看！”
Hadley exits. Andy touches the boxes like a love-struck man touching a beautiful woman. Wiley grins.
哈雷走了，安迪摸着那些盒子，就像热恋中的男人在抚摸他漂亮的女人。韦利又笑了。

WILEY韦利
Good for you， Andy. “你真行，安迪！”
ANDY安迪
Only took six years. （beat）（q12） From now on， I send two letters a week instead of one.
“只用了六年。从现在起，我每周不是一封而要寄二封了。”
WILEY韦利
（laughs， shakes his head） （大笑，摇摇头）
I believe you‘re crazy enough. You better get this stuff downstairs like the Captain said. I‘m gonna go pinch a loaf. When I get back， this is all gone， right？
“我看你是疯够了，你最好听队长的话把这些东西弄到楼下去。我现在出去偷个闲，回来时，所有的都要收拾完，好吗？”
Andy nods. Wiley disappears into the toilet， Jughead Comix in hand. Alone now， Andy starts going through the boxes like a starving man exploring packages of food. He doesn‘t know where
to turn first. He gets giddy， ripping boxes open and pulling out books， touching them， smelling them.
安迪点头答应。韦利，手里拿着本色情漫画走进洗手间。安迪现在独自一人，他开始检查这些盒子，像是饥饿的人在浏览食品袋，不知道该先开哪一个。他手忙脚乱的撕开包裹取出书本，摸着，闻着。
He rips open another box. This one contains an old phonograph player， industrial gray and green， the words "Portland Public School District" stenciled on the side. The box also contains stacks and stacks of used record albums.
他撕开又一个包裹，里面有一台旧留声机，银绿相间，“波特兰公立校区”的字样印在一边，盒子里还有一叠叠的旧唱片。
Andy reverently slips a stack from the box and starts flipping through them. Used Nat King Coles， Bing Crosbys， etc. He comes across a certain album -- Mozart‘s "Le Nozze de Figaro." He pulls it from the stack， gazing upon it as a man transfixed. It is a thing of beauty. It is the Grail.
安迪虔诚地解开一叠唱片，开始逐张审视。.耐特.金、冰.克罗斯比等等。他看到了一张唱片―莫扎特的’费加洛婚礼’。他抽出来，看呆了。它真美丽，有如圣盘！
130 INT -- BATHROOM -- DAY （1955） 130内景―洗手间―白天
Wiley sits in one of the stalls， Jughead comic on his knees.
韦利坐在马桶上，膝盖上放着色情漫画。
131 INT -- GUARD STATION/OUTER OFFICE -- DAY 内景--播音室/外间办公室―白天
Andy wrestles the phonograph player onto the guards‘ desk， sweeping things onto the floor in his haste. He plugs the machine in. A red light warms up. The platter starts spinning.
安迪把唱机搬到桌子上，胡乱地把桌上的东西拔拉到地上。他插上插销，唱机上的红灯亮了起来，托盘开始旋转。
He slides the Mozart album from its sleeve， lays it on the platter， and lowers the tone arm to his favorite cut. The needle HISSES in the groove……and the MUSIC begins， lilting and gorgeous. Andy sinks into Wiley‘s chair， overcome by its beauty. It is "，" a duet sung by Susanna and the Contessa.
他从封套中取出唱片，放在托盘上，把唱臂放到他最喜欢的一节上，唱针在唱片的凹槽上发出’嘶嘶’声，音乐响起，明快、宜人。安迪躺在韦利的椅子上，为音乐的美丽而沉醉。’Deutino: Che soave zeffiretto’苏珊娜和孔德萨的二重唱。
132 INT -- BATHROOM -- DAY （1955） 132内景―洗手间―白天
Wiley pauses reading， puzzled. He thinks he hears music.
韦利停止看书，疑惑地，他觉得听到了音乐声。
WILEY韦利
Andy？ You hear that？ “安迪，你听到了吗？”
133 INT -- GUARD STATION/OUTER OFFICE -- DAY （1955） 133
Andy shoots a look at the bathroom……and smiles. Go for broke. He lunges to his feet and barricades the front door， then the bathroom. He returns to the desk and positions the P.A. microphone. He works up his courage， then flicks all the toggles to "on." A SQUEAL OF FEEDBACK echoes briefly……
安迪看看洗手间，笑了笑。他快速起身，想尽办法锁住前门，然后是洗手间的门。他返回桌子，摆好扩音器的麦克，鼓起勇气，把所有的开关打到“开”的位置，扩音器发出大声的回响。
134 INT/EXT -- VARIOUS P.A. SPEAKERS -- DAY （1955） 134内/外景―各个扬声器―白天
……and the Mozart is suddenly broadcast all over the prison.
于是莫扎特的音乐突然就遍布了监狱的各个角落。
135 INT -- BATHROOM -- DAY （1955） 135内景―洗手间―白天
Wiley lunges to his feet， pants tangling around his ankles. 韦利猛得站起来，裤子缠在脚踝处。
136 INT/EXT -- SHAWSHANK PRISON -- VARIOUS LOCATIONS -- DAY （1955） 136
11. 内/外景―肖申克监狱―白天
Cons all over the prison stop whatever they‘re doing， freezing in mid-step to listen， gazing up at the speakers.
整个监狱的犯人们全部停下来，愣在那儿听着，看着扬声器。
137 The stamping machines in the plate shop are shut down…… 137
车牌厂的冲压机关掉了……
138 The laundry line goes silent， grinding to a halt…… 138
洗衣房静了下来，机器慢慢的停了下来……
139 The wood shop machines are turned off， buzzing to a stop…… 139
木材厂的机器也被关掉，嗡嗡地停止运转……
140 The motor pool……the kitchen……the loading dock……the exercise thru yard……the numbing routine of prison life itself……all grinds thru 140
停车场……厨房……装卸处……操场……麻木的日常监狱生活本身……所有的都慢慢的停了下来……
143 to a stuttering halt. Nobody moves， nobody speaks. Everybody just stands in place， listening to the MUSIC， hypnotized. 143
一点一点的停了下来。没人动，没人说话。所有的人只是站在那儿，倾听着音乐，如被催眠。
144 INT -- GUARD STATION -- DAY （1955） 144内景―播音室―白天
Andy is reclined in the chair， transported， arms fluidly conducting the music. Ecstasy and rapture. Shawshank no longer exists. It has been banished from the mind of men.
安迪斜躺在椅子上，如痴如醉，双臂挥动着指挥着音乐，全神贯注、兴高采烈。肖申克已不存在，它被人们从内心里忘却。
145 EXT -- EXERCISE YARD -- DAY （1955） 145 外景―操场―白天
CAMERA TRACKS along groups of men， all riveted. 镜头掠过人群，所有的人都怔在那儿。
RED （V.O.）瑞德（旁白）
I have no idea to this day what them two Italian ladies were singin‘ about. Truth is， I don‘t want to know. Some things are best left unsaid. I like to think they were singin‘ about something so beautiful it can‘t be expressed in words， and makes your heart ache because of it.
“我可听不懂这一天那两个意大利女人唱得什么，说实话，也不想知道，有些事情不说出来更好。我是想说她们唱得太好了，无法用语言来形容，好得让你心痛。”
CAMERA brings us to Red. 镜头拉回瑞德。
RED （V.O.）瑞德（旁白）
I tell you， those voices soared. Higher and farther than anybody in a gray place dares to dream. It was like some beautiful bird flapped into our drab little cage and made these walls dissolve away……and for the briefest of moments -- every last man at Shawshank felt free.
“告诉你们，那声音激扬。比这个灰色地方里的任何人敢于梦想的都要遥远、高昂。就像鸟儿振翅飞进我们枯燥的牢笼将围墙释放……就在那一刻―肖申克的每一个人都感到了自由。”
146 INT -- PRISON CORRIDOR -- DAY （1955） 146内景―走廊―白天
FAST DOLLY with Norton striding up the hallway with Hadley.
镜头急速的跟着大步走来的诺顿和哈雷。
RED （V.O.）瑞德（旁白）
It pissed the warden off something terrible. “这声音十分地激怒了监狱长。”
12. INT -- GUARD STATION/OUTER OFFICE -- DAY （1955） 内景--播音室/外间办公室―白天
Norton and Hadley break the door in. Andy looks up with a sublime smile. We hear Wiley POUNDING on the bathroom door:
诺顿和哈雷破门而入，安迪抬起头，面带庄严的微笑。韦利正在使劲地敲击洗手间的门。
WILEY （O.S.）韦利
LET ME OUUUUT! “让我出……去！”
148 INT -- SOLITARY WING -- DAY （1955） 148内景―禁闭室大门―白天
LOW ANGLE SLOW PUSH IN on the massive， rust-streaked steel door. God， this is a terrible place to be.
低镜头缓慢地推进那扇沉重的、锈迹斑斑的铁门。上帝！这真是个可怕的地方。
RED （V.O.） 瑞德（旁白）
Andy got two weeks in the hole for that little stunt.
“安迪因为他那小小的惊人之举，禁闭两周。”
149 INT -- SOLITARY CONFINEMENT -- DAY （1955） 149内景―禁闭室―白天
Andy doesn‘t seem to mind. His arms sweep to the music still playing in his head. We hear a FAINT ECHO of the soaring duet.
安迪似乎并不在意，还在指挥着盘旋在脑海中的音乐。可以听到微弱的响起那激扬的二重唱。
150 INT -- MESS HALL -- DAY （1955） 1 50内景―食堂―白天
HEYWOOD海沃德
Couldn‘t play somethin‘ good， huh？ Hank Williams？
“不能放首好的吗？汉克.威廉姆斯（音乐家）。”
ANDY安迪
They broke the door down before I could take requests.
“在我能够接受点播时，他们把门撞破了。”
FLOYD弗洛伊德

Was it worth two weeks in the hole？ “在那洞里呆两星期值得吗？”
ANDY安迪
Easiest time I ever did. “我曾有过的最轻松的一段时间。”
HEYWOOD海沃德
Shit. No such thing as easy time in the hole. A week seems like a year.
“狗屁！在那里没有什么轻松的时刻，一星期就像一年！”
ANDY安迪
I had Mr. Mozart to keep me company. Hardly felt the time at all.
“我有莫扎特先生陪着，根本感觉不到时间。”
RED瑞德
Oh， they let you tote that record player down there， huh？ I could‘a swore they confiscated that stuff.
“哦？他们能让你带着留声机么？我发誓他们一定没收了。”
ANDY安迪
（taps his heart， his head） （拍拍胸口、脑袋）
The music was here……and here. That‘s the one thing they can‘t confiscate， not ever. That‘s the
beauty of it. Haven‘t you ever felt that way about music， Red？
“音乐在这儿……在这儿。这他们可没收不了，永远别想。这就是它的美丽所在，你从来没有那样听过音乐吗？瑞德？”
RED瑞德
Played a mean harmonica as a younger man. Lost my taste for it. Didn‘t make much sense on the inside.
“年轻时吹过差劲的口琴，后来没有了兴趣，再说在牢里也没什么意义。”
ANDY安迪
Here‘s where it makes most sense. We need it so we don‘t forget.
“在这里音乐是有意义的，我们需要它，这样便不会忘记。”
RED瑞德
Forget？ “忘记？”
ANDY安迪
That there are things in this world not carved out of gray stone. That there‘s a small place inside of us they can never lock away， and that place is called hope.
“在这个世界上，有些东西用石头是刻不来的。在我们的心中有块地方是关不住的，那块地方称为自由。”
RED瑞德
Hope is a dangerous thing. Drive a man insane. It‘s got no place here. Better get used to the idea.
“希望是件可怕的东西，会让人发狂的。这儿没有它的地儿，最好认命吧。”
ANDY安迪
（softly） Like Brooks did？ （轻轻地）“就像布鲁克斯？”
FADE TO BLACK 屏幕渐黑
151 AN IRON-BARRED DOOR 151一扇铁栅门
slides open with an enormous CLANG. A stark room beyond. CAMERA PUSHES through. SEVEN HUMORLESS MEN sit at a long table. An empty chair faces them. We are again in:
随着一声巨响铁门打开，远端是一间屋子，镜头推近。七个人一本正经的在一张长长的桌子边挨着坐着，面前是一张空椅。镜头再次推进房子。
13. INT -- SHAWSHANK HEARINGS ROOM -- DAY （1957） 内景―听讯室―白天
Red enters， ten years older than when we first saw him at a parole hearing. He removes his cap and sits.
瑞德进入，首次看他的假释听证会已是十年前了。他摘下帽子坐下来。
MAN #l男1
It says here you‘ve served thirty years of a life sentence.
“档案上看你已服了三十年的终生监禁。”
MAN #2男2
You feel you‘ve been rehabilitated？ “你觉得你已改过了么？”
RED瑞德
Yes sir， without a doubt. I can say I‘m a changed man. No danger to society， that‘s the God‘s honest
truth. Absolutely rehabilitated.
“是的，毫无疑问。我可以说我是一个改过自新的人，不再危害社会，上帝保证。完全悔过。”
CLOSEUP -- PAROLE FORM 特写―假释表
A big rubber stamp slams down: "REJECTED." 大大的橡皮图章砸下：’驳回’。
152 EXT -- PRISON YARD -- DUSK （1957） 152外景―监狱操场―傍晚
Red emerges into fading daylight. Andy‘s waiting for him.
瑞德出现在渐渐暗淡的日光中，安迪正等着他。
RED瑞德
Same old， same old. Thirty years. Jesus. When you say it like that……
“老样子，还是老样子。三十年了，上帝！当说起这些时……”
ANDY安迪
You wonder where it went. I wonder where ten years went.
“你想知道是怎么过的，这十年都去哪儿了？”
Red nods， solemn. They settle in on the bleachers. Andy pulls a small box from his sweater， hands it to Red.
瑞德严肃的点点头。他们坐在看台上，安迪从身上拿出一个小盒子，递给瑞德。
ANDY安迪
Anniversary gift. Open it. “周年礼物，打开它。”
Red does. Inside the box， on a thin layer of cotton， is a shiny new harmonica， bright aluminum and circus-red.
瑞德打开。盒子里，薄薄的棉垫上，一个闪闪发光的新口琴，琴身是明亮的银色并系着红绳。
ANDY安迪
Had to go through one of your competitors. Hope you don‘t mind. Wanted it to be a surprise.
“找你的同行买的，希望你别介意，只想给你个惊喜。”
RED瑞德
It‘s very pretty， Andy. Thank you. “它真漂亮，安迪，谢谢你！”
ANDY安迪
You gonna play something？ “想来一段儿吗？”
Red considers it， shakes his head. Softly: 瑞德考虑了一下，轻轻地摇摇头：
RED瑞德
Not today. “今天不。”
14. CELLBLOCK FIVE/ANDY‘S CELL -- NIGHT （1957） 153内景―五号/安迪的号房―夜晚
Men line the tiers as the evening count is completed. The convicts step into their cells. The master switch is thrown and all the doors slam shut -- KA-THUMP! Andy finds a cardboard tube on his bunk. The note reads: "A new girl for your 10 year anniversary. From your pal. Red."
人们在楼层上排着队完成晚上的例行点名。犯人们各自走进他们的号房。主开关被关上，所有的门都被’咔―砰’地锁住。安迪发现他的铺上有个纸筒，上面写着：“一个新的姑娘，纪念你的十周年。你的伙计，瑞德。”
154 INT -- ANDY‘S CELL -- LATER （1957） 154内景―安迪的号房―一会儿
Marilyn Monroe‘s face fills the screen. SLOW PULL BACK reveals the new poster: the famous shot from "The Seven Year Itch，" on the subway grate with skirt billowing up. Andy sits gazing at her as lights-out commences……
玛里琳.门罗的脸出现在画面上。镜头缓缓后拉显现出这张新的海报：出自于“七年之痒”中一个着名的画面。她站在铁道上，裙裾飞扬。安迪坐在那儿盯着看，此时，开始熄灯了……
15. INT -- RED‘S CELL -- NIGHT （1957） 155内景―瑞德的号房―夜晚
……and we find Red gazing blankly as darkness takes the cellblock. Adding up the months， weeks， days……
瑞德发着怔，黑暗包围了囚室，接着是月、星期、天……
He regards the harmonica like a man confronted with a Martian artifact. He considers trying it out -- even holds it briefly to his lips， almost embarrassed -- but puts it back in its box untested. And there the harmonica will stay……
他像对待一件火星来的物品那样看待这个口琴。他想试一下，甚至都放到嘴唇上了，局促不安地--但还是没有吹就又放回盒子里。

FADE TO BLACK 屏幕渐黑
WE HOLD IN BLACKNESS as THUMPING SOUNDS grow louder……
随着“砰，砰”的关灯声愈来愈大，一切都溶进黑暗。
RED （V.O.）瑞德
Andy was as good as his word. He kept writing to the State Senate. Two letters a week instead of one.
“安迪就像他说的那样，不停的给州议院写信。一星期两封而不是一封。”
……and the BLACKNESS disintegrates as a wall tumbles before our eyes， revealing a WORK CREW with picks and sledgehammers， faces obscured outlaw-style with kerchiefs against the dust. Behind them are GUARDS overseeing the work.
黑暗渐渐消退，看到一堵墙倒下。一列工作队拿着镐和锤，防尘的毛巾遮着犯人们的脸，守卫们在身后监视着他们干活。
Andy yanks his kerchief down， grinning in exhilaration. Red and the others follow suit. They step through the hole in the wall， exploring what used to be a sealed-off storage room. 安迪扯下毛巾，愉快的笑着，瑞德和其他人也都笑了起来。他们跨过墙洞，在这个曾被封闭的储藏室中搜寻。
RED （V.O.）瑞德（旁白）
In 1959， the folks up Augusta way finally clued in to the fact they couldn‘t buy him off with just a
200 dollar check. Appropriations Committee voted an annual payment of 500 dollars， just to shut him up.
“1959年，奥古斯塔（缅因州首府）的人们终于发现仅凭一张200美元的支票是打发不了安迪的。拔款委员会投决出每年500美元的支付，为了让他停止写信。”
157 INT -- PRISON LIBRARY -- DAY （1960） 157 内景―图书馆―白天
TRACKING the construction. Walls have been knocked down. Men are painting， plastering， hammering. Lots of shelves going up. Red is head carpenter. We find him discussing plans with Andy.
墙被推倒，大家干着活，刷漆的、涂灰的、敲东西的，还有许多的铁锨在忙活着。瑞德是领头的木匠，他正与安迪商量事情。
RED （V.O.）瑞德（旁白）
Those checks came once a year like clockwork. “那些支票准确无误的一年一到。”
158 INT -- PRISON LIBRARY -- DAY （1960） 158 内景―图书馆―白天
Red and the boys are opening boxes， pulling out books.
瑞德和大家正在打开箱子，把书拿出来。
RED （V.O.）瑞德（旁白）
You‘d be amazed how far Andy could stretch it. He made deals with book clubs， charity groups……he bought remaindered books by the pound……
“你想不到安迪都会做些什么。他与图书俱乐部做交易、与慈善组织……他论磅购买廉价图书……”
HEYWOOD海沃德
Treasure Island. Robert Louis…… “金银岛，罗伯特.路易斯”
ANDY安迪
（jotting） （记下）
……Stevenson. Next？ “下一个是斯蒂文森吗？”
RED瑞德
I got here an auto repair manual， and a book on soap carving.
“我找到一本汽车维修和一本有关肥皂雕刻的书。”
ANDY安迪
Trade skills and hobbies， those go under educational. Stack right behind you.
“商业技巧及习惯，这些放到教育类，就在你身后。”
HEYWOOD海沃德
The Count of Monte Crisco…… “基科山恩仇记……”
FLOYD弗洛伊德
Cristo， you dumbshit. “基督山，你个笨蛋。”
HEYWOOD海沃德
……by Alexandree Dumb-ass. “亚力山大.大马屎着……”
ANDY安迪
Dumas. You boys‘ll like that one. It‘s about a prison break.
“是大仲马，你们一定会喜欢，是一本有关越狱的书。”
Floyd tries to take the book. Heywood yanks it back. I saw it first. Red shoots Andy a look.
弗洛伊德试图拿那本书，海沃德赶忙把书收了回来。（请教：I saw it first.I指的是谁？）瑞德瞄了安迪一眼。
RED瑞德
Maybe that should go under educational too. “也许也应归教育类。”
159 INT -- WOOD SHOP -- DAY （1961） 159内景―木材厂―白天
Red is making a sign， carefully routing letters into a long plank of wood. It turns out to be--
瑞德正在做牌子，他仔细地在一块长长的木头板子上排列字母。这些字母是：
160 INT -- PRISON LIBRARY -- DAY （1963） 160内景―图书馆―白天
-- the varnished wood sign over the archway: "Brooks Hatlen Memorial Library." TILT DOWN to reveal the library in all its completed glory: shelves lined with books， tables and chairs， even a few potted plants. Heywood is wearing headphones， listening to Hank Williams on the record player.
上过漆的牌子挂在图书馆的门上：’纪念布鲁克斯.哈特兰图书馆’。镜头向下，显示出图书馆内：书架上摆放着成行的书，桌子、椅子，甚至还有几盆植物。海沃德戴着耳机在听汉克.威廉姆斯的唱片。
RED （V.O.）瑞德（旁白）
By the year Kennedy was shot， Andy had transformed a broom closet smelling of turpentine into the best prison library in New England.
“到肯尼迪遇刺的那一年，安迪已经把散发着松节油味的杂物室变成新格兰（由缅因州、新罕布什尔州、佛蒙特州、马萨诸塞州和康涅狄格州和罗德岛组成）最好的监狱图书馆。”
161 EXT -- SHAWSHANK PRISON -- DAY （1963） 161外景―肖申克监狱―白天
FLASHBULBS POP as Norton addresses MEMBERS OF THE PRESS:
闪光灯’砰砰’的频闪，诺顿在新闻发布会上讲话：
RED （V.O.）瑞德（旁白）
That was also the year Warden Norton instituted his famous "Inside-Out" program. You may remember reading about it. It made all the papers and got his picture in LIFE magazine.
“也是在那年，典狱长诺顿开始实行他的着名的’狱外’计划。你也许还记得看到过这样的新闻吧。充斥在各种报纸上，他的照片还登在了生活杂志上。”
NORTON诺顿
……a genuine， progressive advance in corrections and rehabilitation. Our inmates， properly supervised， will be put to work outside these walls performing all manner of public service. Cutting pulpwood， repairing bridges and causeways， digging storm drains……
“一个真正的、有进步意义的服刑和改造。我们的服刑人员，被正确的监管的服刑者，将走出高墙，为各种公共服务进行劳动。加工木材、修理桥梁堤道、挖沟掘道……”
ANGLE TO Red and the boys listening from behind the fence.
镜头转向围栏后倾听着的瑞德和他的伙计们。
NORTON诺顿
These men can learn the value of an honest day‘s labor while providing a valuable service to the community -- and at a bare minimum of expense to Mr. and Mrs. John Q. Taxpayer!
“这些人会从有价值的社会服务中明白做一个诚实劳动者的意义。并且，以最低的支出来节省纳税人的花费！”
HEYWOOD海沃德
Sounds like road-gangin‘， you ask me. “听起来像修路队，要问我的话。”
RED瑞德
Nobody asked you. “没人问你。”
162 EXT -- HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION SITE -- DAY （1963） 外景―筑路工地―白天
A ROAD-GANG is grading a culvert with picks. There‘s dust and the smell of sweat in the air. GUARDS patrol with sniper rifles， A pushy WOMAN REPORTER in an ugly hat bustles up the grade， trailed by a PHOTOGRAPHER.
一队筑路的犯人正在用镐推动管道，空气中充满着尘土和汗味。卫兵们拿着步枪巡逻，一个出风头的女记者，戴着一顶难看的帽子，匆匆地走上坡，后面尾随着一个摄像师。
WOMAN REPORTER女记者
You there! You men! We‘re gonna take your picture now!
“你们在那儿！你们这些人！我们现在要给你们拍照！”
HEYWOOD海沃德
Give us a break， lady. “让我们休息会儿，女士。”
WOMAN REPORTER女记者
Don‘t you know who I am？ I‘m from LIFE magazine! I was told I‘d get some co-operation out here! You want me to report you to your warden？ Is that what you want？
“你不知道我是谁吧？我是生活杂志的！有人告诉我会得到很好的配合的，大老远的！你想让我告诉你们监狱长吗？你想吗？”

HEYWOOD海沃德
（sighs） （叹口气）
No， ma‘am. “不，夫人。”
WOMAN REPORTER女记者
That‘s more like it! Now I want you all in a row with big bright smiles on your faces! Grab hold of your tools and show ‘em to me!
“那还差不多！现在，我要你们排成一列，脸上露出灿烂的笑容来！拿着你们的工具展示给我看！”
She turns， motioning her photographer up the grade. Heywood glances around at the other men.
她转身示意摄像师走上坡来，海沃德环视其他的人。
HEYWOOD海沃德
You heard the lady. “你们听到她说的了吧。”
Heywood unzips his pants， reaches inside. The others do likewise. The woman turns back and is greeted by the sight of a dozen men displaying their penises and smiling brightly. Her legs go wobbly and she sits heavily down on the dirt grade.
海沃德解开裤子，手伸进去，其它的人照做。女人转过身来发现这十几个人正在以他们的阴径和灿烂的笑容向她示意，她的腿一下子软了下来，重重地跌坐在肮脏的土坡上。
HEYWOOD海沃德
C‘mon! We‘re showin‘ our tools and grinnin‘ like fools! Take the damn picture!
“来呀！我们正展示我们的工具并像傻瓜一样的笑着呢！拍他妈的照哇！”
163 INT -- SOLITARY CONFINZMENT -- NIGHT （1963） 163内景―禁闭室―夜晚
Heywood sits alone in the dark. He sighs. 海沃德独自坐在黑暗中，叹息着。
RED （V.O.）瑞德（旁白）
None of the inmates were invited to express their views……
“没有人会让服刑犯来说出他们的想法。”
164 EXT -- WOODED FIELDS -- DAY （1965） 164外景―林区―白天
A ROAD-GANG is pulling stumps， bogged down in mud.
一队筑路的犯人在泥沼中拖动着树桩。
RED （V.O.）瑞德（旁白）
‘Course， Norton failed to mention to the press that "bare minimum of expense" is a fairly loose term. There are a hundred different ways to skim off the top. Men， materials， you name it. And， oh my Lord， how the money rolled in……
“当然，诺顿并没在新闻发布会上提及’最低的支出’是一个相当不准确的用词。有上百种不同的方法都可以从中取利的。人工、物料，随你说吧。我的主哇！钱就是那样滚进来的……”
Norton strolls into view with NED GRIMES at his heels. 诺顿走过来视察，耐德紧跟着。
NED耐德
This keeps up， you‘re gonna put me out of business! With this pool of slave labor you got， you can
underbid any contractor in town.
“如果你继续的话，我就别干这行了！有这些奴隶劳工，你可以出低于镇上任何承包商的报价。”
NORTON诺顿
Ned， we‘re providing a valuable community service. “耐德，我们正在提供有意义的社会服务。”
NED耐德
That‘s fine for the papers， but I got a family to feed. The State don‘t pay my salary. Sam， we go
back a long way. I need this new highway contract. I don‘t get it， I go under. That‘s a fact. （hands him a box） Now you just have some‘a this fine pie my missus baked specially for you， and you think about that.
“报纸当然喜欢这个，可我还要养家呢。州政府可不付给我薪水。老兄，我们处理时间不短了。我需要这条新高速公路的合同，如果得不到，我就完蛋了，真的。（递给诺顿一个盒子）尝一下我太太特意为你烤制的馅饼吧，然后再考虑一下。”
Norton opens the box. Alongside the pie is an envelope. He runs his thumb across the thick stack of cash it contains.
诺顿打开盒子，馅饼的旁边是一个信封，他用拇指拔弄信封中那叠厚厚的钞票。
IN THE BACKGROUND， a winch cable SNAPS and whips through the air， damn near severing a man‘s leg. He goes down， screaming in mud and blood， pinned by a fallen tree stump. Men rush over to help him. Norton barely takes notice.
在两人的背景处，一个绞盘的缆线所忽然断裂，在空中抽动，几乎抽断了一个人的大腿，他倒在泥泞和血泊中，大叫，一个倒下的树桩拌着他，人们冲过来帮忙。诺顿几若无睹。
NORTON诺顿
Ned， I wouldn‘t worry too much over this contract. Seems to me I‘ve already got my boys committed elsewhere. You be sure and thank Maisie for this fine pie.
“耐德，别对这份合约担心，我已准备让我的人去做别的事了。一定帮我谢谢梅齐（耐德妻子）烤了这么好的馅饼！”
165 INT -- NORTON‘S OFFICE -- NIGHT （1965） 165内景―诺顿办公室―夜晚
ANGLE on Maisie‘s pie. Several pieces gone. 镜头对着梅齐的馅饼，已经吃掉了几块。
RED （V.O.）瑞德（旁白）
And behind every shady deal， behind every dollar earned……
“在每笔幕后的交易下，赚来的每一美元……”
TILT UP to Andy at the desk， munching thoughtfully as he totals up figures on an adding machine.
镜头移向桌子旁的安迪，嘴里一边嚼着一边在计算机器上加数字。
RED （V.O.）瑞德（旁白）
……there was Andy， keeping the books. “都由安迪登记入帐。”
Andy finishes preparing two bank deposits. Norton hovers near the desk， keeping a watchful eye.
安迪准备好两笔存款，诺顿走到桌子跟前，仔细的看。
ANDY安迪
Two deposits， Casco Bank and New England First. Night drop， like always.
“两笔存款，凯斯科和新格兰第一银行，夜存，如同往常。”
Norton pockets the envelopes. Andy crosses to the wall safe and shoves the ledger and sundry files inside. Norton locks the safe， swings his wife‘s framed sampler back into place. He cocks his thumb at some laundry and two suits in the corner.
“诺顿把信封装到兜里，安迪走到墙上的保险柜那儿，把账薄和相关文件放进去。诺顿锁住保险柜，把他妻子的刺绣作品旋回原处。他竖起拇指指向墙角的衣物和两套西装。”
NORTON诺顿
Get my stuff down t‘laundry. Two suits for dry-clean and a bag of whatnot. Tell ‘em if they over-
starch my shirts again， they‘re gonna hear about it from me. （adjusts his tie） How do I look？
“把我的东西拿到洗衣房，两套西装要干洗，还有架子上的包。告诉他们，如果再浆洗过了的话，我就要找他们麻烦了。（整理领带）看上去如何？”
ANDY安迪
Very nice. “非常好！”
NORTON诺顿
Big charity to-do up Portland wa（q12）. Governor‘s gonna be there. （indicates pie） Want the rest of that？ Woman can‘t bake worth shit.
“有个大型慈善会，州长会去。（示意馅饼）要剩下的这些吗？女人只能烤出恶心的东西。”
166 INT -- PRISON CORRIDOR -- NIGHT （1965） 166内景―监狱走廊―夜晚
Andy trudges down the corridor with Norton‘s laundry， the pie box under his arm.
安迪拿着诺顿的衣物在走廊里拖着沉重的脚步，胳膊下面夹着那盒馅饼。
167 INT -- LIBRARY -- DAY （1965） 167内景―图书馆―白天
TILT UP FROM PIE to find Red munching away as he helps Andy sort books on the shelves.
镜头从馅饼照到大嚼着的瑞德，他在帮安迪摆放架子上的书。
RED瑞德
Got his fingers in a lot of pies， from what I hear. “他把手伸到了许多的馅饼里，我听说的。”
ANDY安迪
What you hear isn‘t half of it. He‘s got scams you haven‘t dreamed of. Kickbacks on his kickbacks.
There‘s a river of dirty money flowing through this place.
“你听说的还不到一半，他做的勾当你做梦都想不到。一层又一层回扣，那些黑钱如河一般在此流淌。”
RED瑞德
Money like that can be a problem. Sooner or later you gotta explain where it came from.
“像那样得来的钱会有麻烦的，迟早要解释它从哪儿来。”
ANDY安迪
That‘s where I come in. I channel it， funnel it， filter it……stocks， securities， tax free municipals…… I send that money out into the big world. And when it comes back……
“那就是用我的原因。我把钱流通、汇集、过滤……什么股票、证券、免税公债……我把钱投入到这大千世界中，当它再返回的时候……”
RED瑞德，

It‘s clean as a virgin‘s whistle（q13）？ “干净的就像处女吗？（请教：virgin’s whistle？）”
ANDY安迪
Cleaner. By the time Norton retires， I will have made him a millionaire.
“还要干净。诺顿退休时，我将把他变成百万富翁。”
RED瑞德
Jesus. They ever catch on， he‘s gonna wind up wearing a number himself.
“天！要是被逮住，他也会完蛋穿上号衣的。”
ANDY安迪
（smiles） （微笑）
I thought you had more faith in me than that. “我以为你相信我的能力的。”
RED瑞德
I‘m sure you‘re good， but all that paper leaves a trail. Anybody gets too curious -- FBI， IRS， whatever -- that trail‘s gonna lead to somebody.
“我当然知道你很棒，但文件会留下痕迹的。任何有着强烈好奇心的人―联邦调查局、国税局不管是谁―他们顺着痕迹会找到的。”
ANDY安迪
Sure it will. But not to me， and certainly not to the warden.
“的确会找到。但不是我，当然更不会是典狱长。”
RED瑞德
Who then？ “那是谁？”
ANDY安迪
Peter Stevens. “皮特.斯蒂文斯。”
RED瑞德
Who？ “谁？”
ANDY安迪
The silent， silent partner. He‘s the guilty one， your Honor. The man with the bank accounts. That‘s
where the filtering process starts. They trace it back， all they‘re gonna find is him.
“沉默的、无声的合伙人。他是有罪的，大人。银行帐户是他的，洗钱就是从那儿开始的。他们如果追查，最终只会找到他。”
RED瑞德
Yeah， okay， but who the hell is he？ “是的，好吧，但他倒底是谁？”
ANDY安迪
A phantom. An apparition. Second cousin to Harvey the Rabbit. （off Red‘s look） I conjured him out of thin air. He doesn‘t exist……except on paper.
“一个影子，一个幻影，哈维兔子（电影）的远房亲戚。（看看瑞德的表情）我凭空变出了他，他并不真实存在，只存在于文件上。”
RED瑞德
You can‘t just make a person up. “你怎么能编造出一个人呢！”
ANDY安迪
Sure you can， if you know how the system works， and where the cracks are. It‘s amazing what you can accomplish by mail. Mr. Stevens has a birth certificate， social security card， driver‘s license.
They ever track those accounts， they‘ll wind up chasing a figment of my imagination.
“当然可以，如果你知道制度是如何运作的，漏洞又在哪里的话。只通过邮件就可以做成这件事，令人惊奇。斯蒂文斯先生有出生证、社保卡、驾驶执照。他们去查些帐户，只能追踪到我想像出来的虚构物。”
RED瑞德
Jesus. Did I say you were good？ You‘re Rembrandt.
“天呢！我说过你很棒么？你简直就是伦布兰特（着名画家）。”
ANDY安迪
It‘s funny. On the outside， I was an honest man. Straight as an arrow. I had to come to prison to
be a crook.
“这很好笑，在外面时，我是一个正直人，直如利箭。可我不得不来到监狱做一个骗子。”
168 EXT -- PRISON YARD -- DUSK （1965） 外景―操场―傍晚
RED瑞德
Does it ever bother you？ “这使你苦恼过吗？”
ANDY安迪
I don‘t run the scams， Red， I just process the profits. That‘s a fine line， maybe. But I‘ve also built
that library， and used it to help a dozen guys get their high school diplomas. Why do you think the
warden lets me do all that？
“阴谋不是我出的，瑞德，我只是处理利润，那也许是个分界线吧。可我还建造了图书馆，并用它帮助十几个狱友获得中学文凭。你凭什么认为监狱长允许我做这些？”
RED瑞德
To keep you happy and doing the laundry. Money instead of sheets.
“为了让你乐于做洗东西的活，但是洗钱不是洗床单。”
ANDY安迪
I work cheap. That‘s the trade-off. “我工作的廉价，这就是交易。”
TWO SIREN BLASTS draw their attention to the main gate. It swings open， revealing a prison bus waiting outside.
两声急促的笛声把他们的注意力转移到监狱大门，大门摇晃着打开，显现出在外面等着的囚车。
169 INT -- PRISON BUS -- DUSK （1965） 169内景―囚车―黄昏
Among those on board is TOMMY WILLIAMS， a damn good-looking kid in his mid-20‘s. The bus RUMBLES through the gate.
汤米.威廉姆斯坐在车上，一个长相俊秀二十多岁的小伙子。囚车隆隆地驶进大门。
170 EXT -- PRISON YARD -- DUSK （1965） 170 外景―操场―黄昏
The new fish disembark， chained together single-file. The old- timers holler and shake the fence. A deafening gauntlet.
新犯走下车，被锁链连成一排。老犯人摇动围栏，大声呼喝，两旁的辱骂声震耳欲聋。
171 INT -- CELLBLOCK EIGHT -- NIGHT （1965） 171 内景―八号囚室―夜晚
Tommy and the others are marched in naked and shivering， covered with delousing powder， greeted by TAUNTS and JEERS.
汤米和其它人光着身子、颤抖着排着队向前走，身上洒着消毒粉，两边是老犯人的辱骂与讥笑。
172 INT -- TOMMY‘S CELL -- NIGHT （1965） 172 内景―汤米的号房―夜晚
The bars slam with a STEEL CLANG. Tommy and his new CELLMATE take in their new surroundings.
牢门铿锵的撞上，汤米和他的新狱友们来到了的新的环境。
TOMMY汤米
Well. Ain‘t this for shit？ “好哇，这是人住的地儿吗？”
173 INT -- PRISON CORRIDOR -- DAY （1965） 173 内景―走廊―白天
DOLLYING Tommy as he struts along， combing his ducktail， cigarette behind his ear. （We definitely need The Coasters or Del Vikings on the soundtrack here. Maybe Jerry Lee Lewis.）
移动拍摄 汤米大步走来，梳着鸭尾式的发型，耳朵上夹着香烟。（毫无疑问，这时的电影配乐应是可斯特斯或是戴尔.维京的，也许应该是杰瑞.李.路易斯。）
RED （V.O.）瑞德
Tommy Williams came to Shawshank in 1965 on a two year stretch for B&E. Cops caught him sneakin‘ TV sets out the back door of a JC Penney.
“汤米.威廉姆斯于1965年由于’破门入室’被判两年刑期而来到肖申克监狱。警察在一家JC.攀尼便利店的后门抓住了正在偷电视的他。”
174 INT -- WOOD SHOP -- DAY （1965） 174 内景―木材厂―白天
A SHRIEKING BUZZSAW slices ten-foot lengths of wood. Red runs the machine while some other OLD-TIMERS feed the wood.
尖叫的圆锯将木材锯成10英尺长的段儿，瑞德操作着机器，其它的老狱友往机器上运送木头。
RED （V.O.）瑞德（旁白）
Young punk， Mr. Rock n‘ Roll， cocky as hell…… “一个小混混--摇滚先生，极其骄傲自大……”
Tommy is hauling the cut wood off the conveyor and stacking it， It‘s a ball-busting job， but the kid‘s a blur（q13）.
汤米正在把锯下来的木头从传送带上拖下来并放成堆，这是件眼疾手快的活，但他却做的很轻松。
TOMMY汤米
（slapping his gloves） C‘mon there， old boys! Movin‘ like molasses! Makin‘ me look bad!

（拍打着他的手套）“来呀，老家伙们！怎么慢慢吞吞的！好像我多笨似的！”
The old guys just grin and shake their heads. 老家伙们只是笑着摇摇头。
RED （V.O.）瑞德（旁白）
We liked him immediately. “我们很快就喜欢上了他。”
175 INT -- MESS HALL -- DAY （1965） 175 内景―食堂―白天
Tommy regales the old boys with his exploits: 汤米正向大家吹嘘他的事情：
TOMMY汤米
……so I‘m backin‘ out the door， right？ Had the TV like this…… （mimes his grip） Big ol‘ thing. Couldn‘t see shit. Suddenly， here‘s this voice: "Freeze kid! Hands in the air!" Well I just stand there holdin‘ on to that TV， so the voice says: "You hear what I said， boy？" And I say， "Yes sir， I sure did! But if I drop this fuckin‘ thing， you got me on destruction of property too!"
“于是我退出门，对吧？像这样拿着电视机……（做出抱着东西的样子）它太大，我什么东西也看不见啦！突然，一个声音传来：‘不许动，小子！举起手来！’ 这时我还是站在那抱着电视，那个声音又说：‘听到我说什么了吗？小子！’ 然后我说：‘是的，警官，我听到了。但是我要把这倒霉玩意放下来的话，你就会再给我加上一条毁坏财物啦！’”
The whole table falls about laughing. 整个桌子上的人笑做一团。
176 INT -- LIBRARY -- DAY （1965） 176内景―图书馆―白天
Poker game in progress. Tommy， Andy， Red and the boys. 汤米、安迪、瑞德和其它人在打扑克。
HEYWOOD海沃德
You did a stretch in Cashman too？ “你还在凯什曼服过刑？”
TOMMY汤米
Yeah. That was an easy ride， let me tell you. Work programs， weekend furloughs. Not like here.
“是的。那是一段轻松的日子，我告诉你，工作有序，周末休息，可不像这儿。”
SNOOZE斯诺
Sounds like you done time all over New England. “听起来你走遍了整个新英格兰。”
TOMNY汤尼
Been in and out since I was 13. Name the place， chances are I been there.
“从13岁起我就进进出出了，你只要说出一个地方，很可能我就呆过。”
ANDY安迪
Perhaps it‘s time you considered a new profession. （the game stalls） What I mean is， you don‘t seem to be a very good thief. Maybe you should try something else.
“也许你该考虑一个新的职业了。（暂停打牌）我的意思是，你似乎并不适合做一个优秀的贼，也许你应该试着做点儿别的。”
TOMMY汤米
What the hell you know about it， Capone？ What are you in for？
“你他妈的知道什么，卡蓬（黑社会头子）？你是怎么进来的？”
ANDY安迪
（wry glance to Red） Everyone‘s innocent in here. Don‘t you know that？
（瞥眼看瑞德）“这儿每个人都是无辜的，你不知道么？”
The tension breaks. Everyone laughs. 紧张感被打破，大家笑了起来。
177 INT -- VISITOR‘S ROOM -- DAY （1965） 177 内景―探访室―白天
CAMERA TRAVELS the room. Chaotic. CONS are waiting their turn or talking to visitors through a thick plexi shield.
镜头扫过整个房间，一片混乱。犯人们在等着轮到自己，通过厚厚的有机材料制成的防护罩与探访者交谈。
RED （V.O.）瑞德（旁白）
As it turns out， Tommy had himself a young wife and new baby girl……
“后来知道汤米有一位年轻的妻子和一个出生不久的幼女。”
Tommy‘s at the end of the row， phone to his ear. Other side of the glass is BETH， near tears， fussing with a BABY on her lap.
汤米坐在一排的末端，话筒贴在耳边。有机玻璃的另一边是含着眼泪的贝斯，情绪激动，膝上搂着一个婴儿。
BETH贝斯
……said we can stay with them， but Joey‘s gettin‘ out of the service next month， and they barely got
enough room as it is. Plus they got Poppa workin‘ double shifts and the baby cries half the night. I just don‘t know where we‘re gonna go……
“说我们能与他们住在一起，但乔伊下个月就要退职了，不像原来，他们都几乎没地儿可住了。再加上，他们让爸爸上两班倒，孩子一哭就是半夜。我真的不知道我们还能去哪儿……”
PUSH IN on Tommy‘s face as he listens. 镜头推进正在仔细倾听的汤米的面部。
RED （V.O.） 瑞德（旁白）
Maybe it was the thought of them on the streets……or his child growing up not knowing her daddy……
“也许是想到她们流落街头，或者是孩子长大后不认识爸爸……”
178 INT -- LIBRARY -- DAY （1965） 178内景―图书馆―g白天
Tommy enters， the strut gone from his step. A little scared. He finds Andy filing library cards.
汤米走进来，没有了那份趾高气扬，带着些惶恐。他看到安迪在归置借书证。
RED （V.O.）瑞德（旁白）
Whatever it was， something lit a fire under that boy‘s ass.
“不管是因为什么，这个孩子有些坐不住了。”
TOMMY汤米
I‘m thinkin‘ maybe I should try for high school equivalency. Hear you helped some fellas with that.
“我在想也许我能试试考中学学历，听说你已经帮助一些人得到了这样的文凭。”
ANDY安迪
I don‘t waste time on losers， Tommy. “我不想把时间浪费到废物身上，汤米。”
TOMNY汤米
（tight） （紧张地）
I ain‘t no goddamn loser. “我可不是他妈的废物。”
ANDY安迪
That‘s a good start. If we do this， we do it all the way. One hundred percent. Nothing half-assed.
“这很好。不过我们一旦开始，就要坚持到底，全心全力，不可半途而废。”
Tommy thinks about it， nods. 汤米考虑了一下，点头同意。
TOMMY汤米
Thing is， see…… （leans in， mutters） ……I don‘t read all that good.
“可是……（探身小声说）我不大会阅读。”
ANDY安迪
（smiles） Well. You‘ve come to the right place then.（微笑）“很好，那你就来对地方了。”
179 INT -- LIBRARY -- DAY （1965） 179 内景―图书馆―白天
We find Andy giving an impassioned reading: 安迪在热情的朗读：
ANDY安迪
"……and the lamplight o‘er him streaming throws his shadow on the floor……and my soul from out that
shadow that lies floating on the floor， shall be lifted nevermore!"
“他头上的灯光把他的身影映在地板上……我的灵魂从影子中飘出，浮在上面，再也不能升起！”
Andy slaps the book shut， immensely pleased with himself.
安迪用力合上书本，对自己非常满意。
TOMMY汤米
So this raven just sits there and won‘t go away？ “那只乌鸦就坐在那儿没有离开吗？”
ANDY安迪
That‘s right. “没错。”
TOMMY汤米
（beat） Why don‘t that fella get hisself a 12-gauge and dust the fucker（q13）？

180 INT -- LIBRARY -- DAY （1965） 180 内景―图书馆―白天
Tommy tries to read as Andy looks on: 汤米努力阅读，安迪一旁看着：
TOMMY汤米
"The cat sh--The cat shh……" （glances up） The cat shat on the welcome mat？
（抬头看了一下）“那猫…那猫……那猫把屎拉在了那只欢迎老鼠上？”
Andy shakes his head. 安迪摇摇头。
ANDY安迪
Not exactly. “不对。”
181 INT -- LIBRARY -- DAY （1965） 181 内景―图书馆―白天
Andy chalks the alphabet on a blackboard. 安迪在黑板上写字母。
RED （V.O.） 瑞德
So Andy took Tommy under his wing. Started walking him through his ABCs……
“这样，安迪就带着汤米，开始从ABC教起……”
182 INT -- MESS HALL -- DAY （1965） 182 内景―食堂―白天
TRACK the table to Tommy and Andy. Discussing a book.
镜头沿着桌子，推向汤米和安迪，两人拿着一本书在讨论。
RED （V.O.）瑞德
Tommy took to it pretty well， too. Boy found brains he never knew he had.
“汤米学得很快，小孩子从不知道自己还有这般本事。”
183 EXT -- EXERCISE YARD BLEACHERS -- DAY （1965） 183 外景―操场看台―白天
TOMNY汤米
The cat sh--shh--shimmied up the tree and crept st--stel--stealthily out on the limb……
“那只猫晃动着树，悄悄地爬上去……”
184 INT -- WOOD SHOP -- DAY （1965） 184 内景―木材厂―白天
Tommy intent on a paperback， mouthing the words. Behind him， wood is piling up on the conveyor belt.
汤米专心看着书，喃喃地读着。他的身后，传送带上的木头堆成一堆。
RED （V.O.）瑞德
After a while， you couldn‘t pry those books out of hands. “再看一会儿，你就拔不出来啦！”
RED瑞德
Ass in gear， son! You‘re putting us behind! “抬起你的屁股，小子！大家都等着你呢！”
Tommy shoves the book in his back pocket and hurries over. 汤米把书塞进口袋，赶忙干活。
185 INT -- LIBRARY -- DAY （1965） 185 内景―图书馆―白天
Tommy writes a sentence on the blackboard. Andy steps in， shows him how to reconstruct it.
汤米在黑板上写上一个句子，安迪走上前，教他如何改句。
RED （V.O.）瑞德（旁白）
Before long， Andy started him on his course requirements. He really liked the kid， that was part of it. Gave him a thrill to help a youngster crawl off the shit heap. But that wasn‘t the only reason……
“不久，安迪开始安排他的课程需要。他真的喜欢那孩子，这是原因之一，帮助一个年轻人走出泥潭使他感到快乐，但那并不是唯一的原因……”
186 INT -- ANDY‘S CELL -- NIGHT （1966） 186 内景―安迪的号房―夜晚
TIGHT ANGLE on chessboard. Most of the pieces complete. PAN TO Andy lying in his bunk， carefully polishing……
镜头紧盯着棋盘，棋子已完成大多数。镜头摇动全景，安迪躺在他的铺上仔细的打磨……
RED （V.O.） 瑞德（旁白）
Prison time is slow time. Sometimes it feels like stop-time. So you do what you can to keep going……
“监狱的时间过得是很慢的，有时感觉如同停止一般。”
……and we keep going past Andy in a SLOW PAN of the cell. Sink. Toilet. Books. Outside the window bars， we hear another TRAIN passing in the night……
镜头缓缓扫过安迪和他的号房。洗脸池、马桶、书。狱窗外又一辆火车驶过黑夜……
RED （V.O.）瑞德（旁白）
Some fellas collect stamps. Others build matchstick houses. Andy built a library. Now he needed a new project. Tommy was it. It was the same reason he spent years shaping and polishing those rocks. The same reason he hung his fantasy girlies on the wall……
“有些人收集邮票，有些人造火柴房子，安迪则成立图书馆。现在他需要一个新的计划，那就是汤米。这与他花费数年打磨那些石头是一个道理，也与那些挂在墙上镜中花似的美丽姑娘一个道理。”
……STILL PANNING， past a chair， a sweater on a hook……and finally to the place of honor on the wall……
镜头继续扫过，一把椅子，挂勾上的一件衫衣……最终到了墙上的那块荣耀之地……
RED （V.O.）瑞德（旁白）
In prison， a man‘ll do most anything to keep his mind occupied.
“在监狱里，人们会想尽办法来消磨时间。”
……where the latest poster turns out to be Racquel Welch ins fur bikini. Gorgeous. "One Million Years， B. C. " SLOW PUSH IN
……最新换上的海报是穿着裘皮比基尼的兰蔻.薇芝。海报上写着’ 公元前一百万年’镜头推进……
RED （V.O.）瑞德
By 1966……right about the time Tommy was getting ready to take his exams……it was lovely Racquel.
“到了1966年，汤米准备参加考试那年，海报换成了可爱的兰蔻。”
187 INT -- LIBRARY -- DAY （1966） 187 内景―图书馆―白天
Tommy‘s taking the big test. Andy‘s monitoring the time. Deep silence， save for Tommy‘s pencil-scribbling. A few old-timers are browsing the shelves， sneaking looks their way. Tommy tries to ignore them. Concentrate.
汤米在做测试，安迪看着时间。非常安静，只有汤米写字的声音。几个老家伙们在书架子那儿逛悠，还不住地偷偷往这儿看。汤米尽量不去理会，专心作测验。
Andy clears his throat. Time‘s up. Tommy puts his pencil down，
安迪清清嗓子，时间到了。汤米把铅笔放下。
ANDY安迪
Well？ “怎么样？”
TOMMY汤米
Well. It‘s for shit. （gets up in disgust） Wasted a whole fuckin‘ year of my time with this bullshit!
“怎么样？狗屁！（厌烦的站起身）为了这狗屁玩意，浪费我的他妈的整整一年的时间！”
ANDY“安迪”
May not be as bad as you think. “也没你想的那么坏。”
TOMMY汤米
It‘s worse! I didn‘t get a fuckin‘ thing right! Might as well be in Chinese!
“比我想的还要坏！我一个他妈的也没弄对！简直就像做中文。”
ANDY安迪
We‘ll see how the score comes out. “我们先看看你得了多少分。”
TOMMY汤米
I‘ll tell you how the goddamn score comes out…… “我来告诉你那该死的分数吧……”
Tommy grabs the test， wads it， slam-dunks it into the trash.
汤米抓起卷子，奋力将其揉成一团，扔到地上。
TOMMY汤米
Two points! Right there! There‘s your goddamn score! （storms out） Goddamn cats crawlin‘ up trees， 5 times 5 is 25， fuck this place， fuck it!
“两分！就在那儿！那就是你的该死的两分。（气冲冲的往外走）该死的猫爬上树，5乘5等于25，去他妈的这个地方！去他妈的！”
Tommy is gone. Red and others stare. Andy gets up， pulls the test from the trash， smoothes it out on the desk.
汤米走了，瑞德和其它人面面相觑，安迪站起来，把卷子捡起来，在桌子上铺平。
188 INT -- WOOD SHOP -- DAY （1966） 188 内景―木材厂―白天

Rest break. Tommy and Red sipping Cokes. 休息时间，汤米和瑞德喝着可乐。
TOMMY汤米
I feel bad. I let him down. “我感觉很糟，我让他失望了。”
RED瑞德
That‘s crap， son. He‘s proud of you. Proud as a hen. （off Tommy‘s look） We been friends a long time. I know him as good as anybody.
“没那事，孩子。他以你为荣，如同他的孩子。（看看汤米的表情）我们是老朋友，我比任何人都了解他。”
TOMMY汤米
Smart fella， ain‘t he？ “聪明之人，是吗？”
RED瑞德
Smart as they come. Used to be a banker on the outside. “聪明之极，没进来时曾是银行家。”
TOMMY汤米
What‘s he in for anyway？ “那他是怎么进来的？”
RED瑞德
Murder. “杀人。”
TOMMY汤米
The hell you say. “瞎扯。”
RED瑞德
You wouldn‘t think， lookin‘ at him. Caught his wife in bed with some golf pro. Greased ‘em both. C‘mon， boy， back to work……
“看外表是看不出来，把妻子与一个高尔夫球手捉奸在床，开枪打死了他们。来吧，孩子，回去干活。”
SMASH! Red turns back. Tommy‘s Coke has slipped from his hand and shattered on the floor. The kid‘s gone white as a sheet.
砰！瑞德转身，汤米的可乐从手中滑出掉在地上碎了，那孩子的脸色如同白纸。
TOMMY汤米
（bare whisper） Oh my God……
（喃喃的说）“哦，上帝……”
189 INT -- LIBRARY -- DAY （1966） 189 内景―图书馆―白天
Tommy sits before Andy and Red: 汤米坐在安迪和瑞德的面前：
TOMMY汤米
‘Bout four years ago， I was in Thomaston on a 2 to 3 stretch. Stole a car. Dumbfuck thing to do. （beat） Few months left to go， I get a new cellmate in. Elmo Blatch. Big twitchy fucker. Crazy eyes. Kind of roomie you pray you don‘t get， know what I‘m sayin‘？ 6 to 12 for armed burglary. Said he done hundreds of jobs. Hard to believe， high-strung as he was. Cut a loud fart， he‘d go three feet in the air. Talked all the time， too， that‘s the other thing. Never shut up. Places he‘d been， jobs he pulled， women he fucked. Even people he killed. People that gave him shit， that‘s how he put it. One night， like a joke， I say: "Yeah？ Who‘d you kill？" So he says……
“大约四年前，我在托马斯顿服两到三年的刑期，因为偷车，真是件蠢事！（拍了一下桌子）出狱前的几个月，来了一个新狱友，埃尔默.布赖奇，极爱紧张的人渣，一双疯狂的眼睛，是那种永远不想与其住在一起的人，明白我说的吧？判6到12年因入室抢劫，号称犯了几百件案子。难以想像他的那种极度紧张感，就是放一个响屁，都会把他惊的蹦起来。总是在说话，（请教：that’s the other thing）从不住嘴。说他去过的地方、犯下的事情、干过的女人，甚至杀过的人。那些跟他废话的人，这就是他为什么杀人的原因。一天晚上，开玩笑似的，我说：’是吗？你杀过人吗？’他就说：……”
BLATCH布赖奇
……I got me this job one time bussin‘ tables at a country club. So I could case all the big rich pricks that come in. I pick out this guy， go in one night and do his place. He wakes up and gives me shit. So I killed him. Him and the tasty bitch he was with. （starts laughing） That‘s the best part! She‘s fuckin‘ this prick， see， this golf pro， but she‘s married to some other guy!
Some hotshot banker. He‘s the one they pinned it on! They got him down-Maine somewhere doin‘ time for the crime! Ain‘t that choice？
“有一次，我在一家乡村俱乐部做招待，这样我就能摸清到这里儿的有钱蠢蛋们的路子，我挑中了一个家伙，晚上就去了他家，他醒过来跟我废话，于是我就杀了他，还有那个和他一起的迷人的婊子。（开始大笑）那是最过瘾的事儿！她在和那个蠢蛋干事，知道么，是个高尔夫球手，但她已和别的男人结婚了！一个牛逼的银行家，他成了抵罪的人，被关在缅因州的某个地方服刑，没得选择！”
He throws his head back and ROARS with laughter. 他狂笑起来，前仰后合。
191 INT -- PRISON LIBRARY -- DAY （1966） 191 内景―图书馆―白天
Silence. Tommy has finished his story. Red is stunned……but Andy looks like he‘s been smacked with a two by four.
寂静。汤米说完了他的故事，瑞德怔在那里，安迪却像没事人似的。
RED瑞德
Andy？ “安迪？”
Andy says nothing. Walks stiffly away. Doesn‘t look back.
安迪一言不发，头也不回的，腿脚僵硬的走开了。
192 INT -- NORTON‘S OFFICE -- DAY （1966） 192 内景―诺顿办公室―白天
NORTON诺顿
Well. I have to say， that‘s the most amazing story I ever heard. What amazes me most is you were taken in by it.
“很好，我不得不说这是我听到的最令人惊奇的故事，最使我感到惊讶的是你居然相信它。”
ANDY安迪
Sir？ “狱长…”
NORTON诺顿
It‘s obvious this fellow Williams is impressed with you. He hears your tale of woe and quite naturally wants to cheer you up. He‘s young， not terribly bright. Not surprising he didn‘t know what a state he‘d put you in.
“很明显这个叫威廉的小伙子被你所打动，他听说了你的惨事，自然想让你振奋起来。可他太年轻，还不够聪明，他并不知道他这样做会把你陷入什么样的状况。”
ANDY安迪
I think he‘s telling the truth. “我认为他说的是真话。”
NORTON诺顿
Let‘s say for a moment Blatch does exist. You think he‘d just fall to his knees and cry， "Yes， I did it! I confess! By all means， please add a life term to my sentence!"
“让我们先假定有布赖奇这么个人存在，你认为他真的会跪下来叫喊：’是的，是我干的！我承认！一定要给我加上个无期徒刑呀！”
ANDY安迪
It wouldn‘t matter. With Tommy‘s testimony， I can get a new trial.
“那没关系，有汤米的证词，案子可以重审的！”
NORTON诺顿
That‘s assuming Blatch is even still there. Chances are excellent he‘d be released by now. Excellent.
“那得假定布赖奇还在那儿，他肯定现在已经出狱了，一定出狱了。”
ANDY安迪
They‘d have his last known address. Names of relatives…… （Norton shakes his head） Well it‘s a chance. isn‘t it？ How can you be so obtuse？
“可还有他最后的地址，亲威的名字……（诺顿摇摇头）这可是个机会，对吧？你怎么这么迟钝？”
NORTON诺顿
What？ What did you call me？ “什么？你说我什么？”
ANDY安迪
Obtuse! Is it deliberate？ The country club will have his old time cards! W-2s with his name on them!
“迟钝！你是故意的吧！那家乡村俱乐部会存有他的考勤卡！写着他的名字的税单！”
NORTON诺顿
（rises） Dufresne， if you want to indulge this fantasy， that‘s your business. Don‘t make it mine. This meeting‘s over.
（抬起头）“杜弗兰，如果你愿意异想天开，那是你的事。别来拿它烦我，谈话结束。”
ANDY安迪
Look， if it‘s the squeeze， don‘t worry. I‘d never say what goes on in here. I‘d be just as indictable as you for laundering the money!
“你看，如果你是怕被敲榨的话，别担心。我不会说出来这里的事情，因为我帮你洗钱，与你一样都会被控告的！”
NORTON诺顿
Don‘t you ever mention money to me again， you sorry son of a bitch! Not in this office， not anywhere! （slaps intercom） Get in here! Now!
“永远不要给我提钱，你个可怜的小畜生！不准在我的办公室里提钱，任何地方都不准提！（按住对讲机）来人，马上！”
ANDY安迪
I was just trying to rest your mind at ease， that‘s all.
“我只是想让你放心，没别的意思。”
NORTON诺顿
（as GUARDS enter） Solitary! A month!（守卫走进来）“禁闭！一个月！”
Andy gets dragged away， kicking and screaming: 安迪被拖着，乱踢着叫喊：
ANDY安迪
What‘s the matter with you？ It‘s my chance to get out， don‘t you see that？ It‘s my life! Don‘t you understand it‘s my life？

“你怎么搞的？这是我出去的机会，你不知道么？这是我的人生！你不懂么？这是我的人生！”
193 EXT -- PRISON YARD -- DAY （1966） 193 外景―操场―白天
Mail call. Men crowd around as names are called out. Red and the boys are parked on the bleachers.
邮件到了，犯人们挤在一起等着叫到自己的名字去拿信，瑞德那伙人呆在看台上。
FLOYD弗洛伊德
A month in the hole. Longest damn stretch I ever heard of.
“在那洞里呆一个月，我听说过的最他妈长的时间。”
TOMMY汤米
It‘s my fault. “都怨我。”
RED瑞德
Like hell. You didn‘t pull the trigger， and you didn‘t convict him.
“没有的事。又不是你开的枪，也不是你判的他有罪。”
HEYWOOD海沃德
Red？ You saying Andy‘s innocent？ I mean for real innocent？ （Red nods） Sweet Jesus. How long‘s he been in here？
“瑞德？你说安迪是无辜的吗？我是说真的无辜。（瑞德点点头）我的天呢！他入狱多长时间了？”
RED瑞德
Since ‘47. Going on nineteen years. “从47开始，已经19年了。”
MAIL CALLER 邮件传唤
Thomas Williams! “汤马斯.威廉姆斯”
Tommy raises his hand. The envelope gets tossed to him. He stares at it. Red peers over his shoulder.
汤米举起手，信扔了过来。他盯着信，瑞德在他的后面也看着。
RED瑞德
Board of Education. “教育委员会。”
TOMMY汤米
The son of a bitch mailed it. “狗日的寄的！”
RED瑞德
Looks that way（q14）. You gonna open it or stick your thumb up your butt？
“你是想打开它还是在哪儿站着傻看？”
TOMMY汤米
Thumb up my butt sounds better. “还是站着傻看好了。”
He gets hemmed in by the older men. Red snatches the letter.
大家走过来围着他，瑞德把信夺过去。
TOMMY汤米
C‘mon， just throw it away. Will you please？ Just throw it away？
“求你了，扔掉吧。行不行？扔了吧。”
Red rips it open， scans the letter. Expressionless. 瑞德撕开信封，开始看信，面无表情。
RED瑞德
Well， shit. “喔，他妈的！”
194 INT -- VISITOR‘S ROOM -- DAY （1966） 194
Tommy makes his way through the chaos， finds Beth and the baby waiting behind the thick plexi shield. He sits， doesn‘t pick up the phone. Just stares at Beth. She doesn‘t know what to make of it.
汤米穿过人群，找到有机玻璃防护罩后面的贝斯和孩子。他坐下，没拿话筒，只是看着贝斯，贝斯有些茫然。
He presses a piece of paper against the glass. A high school diploma. Her face lights up， blinking back tears.
他把一张纸贴在玻璃上，一张高中文凭。笑容灿烂，眼中闪着泪花。
195 INT -- SOLITARY WING -- NIGHT （1966） 195 内景―禁闭室大门―夜晚
LOW ANGLE on steel door. Somewhere behind it， unseen， is Andy， A rat scurries along the wall. FOOTSTEPS approach slowly.
低角镜头对着铁门，门后，安迪在看不见的黑暗中呆着。一只老鼠从墙上跑过，缓慢的脚步声传来。
196 INT -- SOLITARY -- NIGHT （1966） 196 内景―禁闭室―夜晚
Andy listens in darkness. The FOOTSTEPS pause outside his door. The slot opens. An ELDERLY GUARD peers in.
安迪在黑暗中听着，脚步声在门外停止，门洞打开，一个中年守卫探头看着安迪。
ELDERLY GUARD中年守卫
Kid passed. C-plus average. Thought you‘d like to know.
“那孩子通过了，平均成绩C+，我想你会很想知道的。”
The slot closes. The FOOTSTEPS recede. Andy smiles. 门洞关闭，脚步声远去，安迪微笑着。
197 INT -- PRISON CORRIDOR -- NIGHT （1966） 197 内景―监狱走廊―夜晚
We find Tommy on evening work detail， mopping the floors with bucket and pail. Mert Entwhistle comes into view.
安迪在做夜工，提着桶擦地，摩特.恩威斯特走过来。
MERT摩特
Warden wants to talk. “典狱长找你谈话。”
198 EXT -- PRISON -- NIGHT （1966） 198 外景―监狱―夜晚
A steel door rattles open. Mert leads Tommy outside to a gate， unlocks it. Tommy looks around.
一扇铁门嘎嘎的打开，摩特领着汤米走出，来到监狱大门，打开锁。汤米朝四周看着。
TOMMY汤米
Out here？ “在外面吗？”
MERT摩特
That‘s what the man said. “狱长就这么说的。”
Mert swings the gate open， sends Tommy through， turns and heads back inside. Tommy proceeds out across a loading-dock access for the shops and mills. Some vehicles parked. The place is deserted. He stops， sensing a presence.
摩特推开门，把安迪送出去，然后转身回头走了。汤米走过工厂装卸处的入口，一些车辆停在那儿，这地方有些荒凉。觉得有动静，他停了下来。
TOMMY汤米
Warden？ “监狱长吗？”
Norton steps into the light. 诺顿走过来。
NORTON诺顿
Tommy， we‘ve got a situation here. I think you can appreciate that.
“汤米，我们碰到了问题，我想你能够理解。”
TOMMY汤米
Yes sir， I sure can. “是的先生，我当然理解。”
NORTON诺顿
I tell you， son， this really came along and knocked my wind out. It‘s got me up nights， that‘s the truth.
“我告诉你，孩子，这件事情让我真的让我不知所措，使我夜不能眠，真的这样。”
Norton pulls a pack of cigarettes， offers Tommy a smoke. Tommy takes one. Norton lights both cigarettes， pockets his lighter.
诺顿拿出一包烟，给了汤米一支，汤米接住。诺顿给两人点上火，把打火机放进兜里。
NORTON诺顿
The right decision. Sometimes it‘s hard to figure out what that is. You understand？ （Tommy nods）
Think hard， Tommy. If I‘m gonna move on this， there can‘t be the least little shred of doubt. I have
to know if you what you told Dufresne was the truth.
“正确的决定，有时是很难分清的。明白么？（汤米点点头）仔细想想，汤米。如果我想改变，就不能有丝毫可疑之处。我必须知道你告诉杜弗兰的是否是真话。”

TOMMY汤米
Yes sir. Absolutely. “是的先生，绝对真话。”
NORTON诺顿
Would you be willing to swear before a judge and jury……having placed your hand on the Good Book and taken an oath before Almighty God Himself？
“你能在法官和陪审团面前发誓吗？你能把你的手放在圣经上面当着万能的上帝起誓吗？”
TOMMY汤米
Just gimme that chance. “我盼望着这个机会。”
NORTON诺顿
That‘s what I thought. “我正是如此想法。”
Norton drops his cigarette. Crushes it out with the toe of his shoe. Glances up toward the plate shop roof as--
诺顿扔掉香烟，用鞋尖碾碎，然后朝车牌厂的房顶看了一眼。
HIGH ANGLE FROM PLATE SHOP ROOF （SNIPER POV）房顶的高角镜头（狙击手的视线）
-- a rifle scope pops up into frame， jumping Tommy‘s image into startling magnification， framed in the crosshairs.
一支瞄准镜出现在屏幕，汤米被放大的惊人的清楚，固定在十字线中央。
200 THE SNIPER 200 狙击手
rapid-fires a carbine -- BLAM!BLAM!BLAM!BLAM! -- his face lit up by the muzzle flashes. Captain Hadley.
速射卡宾枪―砰！砰！砰！砰！---枪口喷出的火光照亮了那张脸，队长哈雷。
201 TOMMY 201 汤米
gets chewed to pieces by the gunfire. He smacks the ground in a twitching， thrashing heap. Eyes wide and staring. Dead. Surprise still stamped on his face. Silence now. Norton turns， strolls into darkness.
被子弹连续击中，抽搐着倒在地上，蜷成一团，眼睛睁着死去，脸上仍是惊诧的表情。诺顿转身，步入黑暗。
202 INT -- SOLITARY WING -- DAY （1966） 202 内景―禁闭室大门―白天
GUARDS approach Andy‘s cell. The door is unlocked. Andy emerges slowly， blinking painfully at the light.
守卫走近禁闭室，把门打开。安迪慢慢走出来，灯光下显得异常虚弱。
203 INT/EXT -- PRISON -- DAY （1966） 203 内/外景―监狱―白天
Andy is marched along. Convicts stop to stare. 安迪往前走着，犯人们停下来看他。
204 INT -- NORTON‘S OFFICE -- DAY （1966） 204 内景―诺顿办公室―白天
Andy is led in. The door is closed. Alone with Norton. Softly，
安迪被带进来，门被关上，与诺顿单独呆在一起。
NORTON诺顿
Terrible thing. Man that young， less than a year to go， trying to escape. Broke Captain Hadley‘s
heart to shoot him， truly it did.
“真可怕，那么年轻，还不到一年就可以出去，却想逃狱。射杀他伤透了哈雷队长的心，伤透了。”
ANDY安迪
I‘m done. It stops right now. Get H&R Block to declare your income.
“我不干了，现在结束了。让税务公司宣布你的收入吧。”
Norton lunges to his feet， eyes sparkling with rage. 诺顿猛地站了起来，眼睛里充满着愤怒。
NORTON诺顿
Nothing stops! NOTHING! Or you will do the hardest time there is. No more protection from the guards. I‘ll pull you out of that one-bunk Hilton and put you in with the biggest bull queer I can find. You‘ll think you got fucked by a train! And the library？ Gone! Sealed off brick by brick! We‘ll have us a little book-barbecue in the yard! They‘ll see the flames for miles! We‘ll dance around it like wild Indians! Do you understand me？ Are you catching my drift？
“什么都不会结束的，不会！我会让你难受透顶的！没有守卫的保护，我把你从单人间调出，放入到我知道的最粗暴的鸡奸犯那里。你会感到就像被一列火车在干你！至于图书馆，没了！一块砖一块砖的把它封掉，然后在院子里举行一次用书做燃料的烧烤！火焰在几英里外都看得到！我们会像印弟安人一样在火边起舞！你明白了吗？你懂了吗？”
SLOW PUSH IN on Andy‘s face. Eyes hollow. His beaten expression says it all……
镜头慢慢推近安迪的脸庞，眼神空洞，被击败的表情说明了一切……
205 EXT -- PRISON YARD -- DAY （1966） 205 外景―操场―白天
Red finds Andy sitting in the shadow of the high stone wall， poking listlessly through the dust for small pebbles. Red waits for some acknowledgment. Andy doesn‘t even look up. Red hunkers down and joins him. Nothing is said for the longest time. And then， softly:
瑞德看到安迪坐在高高的石墙下面，无精打彩的拂去鹅卵石上尘土。瑞德等安迪示意他过去，安迪却连头也没有抬。瑞德盘腿坐到他旁边，两个人很长时间也没有说话。最后，轻轻地：
ANDY安迪
My wife used to say I‘m a hard man to know. Like a closed book. Complained about it all the time. （pause） She was beautiful. I loved her. But I guess I couldn‘t show it enough. （softly） I killed her， Red.
“我妻子曾说我是个难于理解的人，像一本合着的书，她总在抱怨。（停了一下）她很美，我爱她，但是也许我表示的不够。（轻轻地）是我杀了她，瑞德。”
Andy finally glances to Red， seeking a reaction. Silence.
安迪终于看了一眼瑞德，等待对方的反应，还是沉寂。
ANDY安迪
I didn‘t pull the trigger. But I drove her away. That‘s why she died. Because of me， the way I am.
“不是我开的枪，但是我把她赶走的，那是她死去的原因。因为我，因为我那样对她。”
RED瑞德
That don‘t make you a murderer. Bad husband， maybe.
“那你并不是凶手，顶多是个不好的丈夫。”
Andy smiles faintly in spite of himself. Red gives his shoulder a squeeze.
安迪不由自主的笑了起来，瑞德耸耸肩。
RED瑞德
Feel bad about it if you want. But you didn‘t pull the trigger.
“你可以为此难过，但不是你开的枪。”
ANDY安迪
No. I didn‘t. Someone else did， and I wound up here. Bad luck， I guess.
“是的，不是我开的。别人杀了她，我却在这里受罪。我想是运气不好吧。”
RED瑞德
Bad luck？ Jesus. “运气不好？天！”
ANDY安迪
It floats around. Has to land on somebody. Say a storm comes through. Some folks sit in their living rooms and enjoy the rain. The house next door gets torn out of the ground and smashed flat. It was my turn， that‘s all. I was in the path of the tornado. （softly） I just had no idea the storm would go on as long as it has. （glances to him） Think you‘ll ever get out of here？
“它一旦来临，就一定会降临到某个人的身上。比如一场暴雨来临，有些人在他们的卧室里坐着享受，隔壁却被折磨、摧毁。这次轮上了我，就这样。我碰到了这场龙卷风，（轻轻地）只是没想到时间会这么长。（看看瑞德）你想过离开这儿吗？”
RED瑞德
Sure. When I got a long white beard and about three marbles left rolling around upstairs.
“当然。等到我长着长长的白胡子的时候，等到我老糊涂的时候。”
ANDY安迪
Tell you where I‘d go. Zihuatanejo.“告诉你我会去哪儿，泽华塔尼。”
RED瑞德
Zihuatanejo？ “泽华塔尼？”
ANDY安迪
Mexico. Little place right on the Pacific. You know what the Mexicans say about the Pacific？ hey say it has no memory. That‘s where I‘d like to finish out my life， Red. A warm place with no memory. Open a little hotel right on the beach. Buy some worthless old boat and fix it up like new. Take my guests out charter fishing. （beat） You know， a place like that， I‘d need a man who can get things.
“墨西哥，地处太平洋的一个小地方。你知道墨西哥人是怎样谈论太平洋的吗？他们说那里没有回忆。在海滩上开一个小旅馆，买些不值钱的旧船翻新，让客人们包船钓鱼。（拍拍瑞德）要知道，像这样的地方，我需要一个能找到东西的人。”
Red stares at Andy， laughs. 瑞德瞪着安迪，大笑。
RED瑞德
Jesus， Andy. I couldn‘t hack it on the outside. Been in here too long. I‘m an institutional man now. Like old Brooks Hatlen was.
“天！安迪，我外面是混不下去的，在这儿呆得时间太长啦，我现在是一个被制度化了的人，就像老布鲁克斯.哈特兰。”
ANDY安迪
You underestimate yourself. “你小看自己了。”
RED“瑞德”
Bullshit. In here I‘m the guy who can get it for you. Out there， all you need are Yellow Pages. I wouldn‘t know where to begin. （derisive snort） Pacific Ocean？ Hell. Like to scare me to death， somethin‘ that big.

“废话。我在这里是能提供东西的人，在外面，你只需要电话黄页就够了，我可不知道该怎么开始。（鼻子里哼了一声）太平洋？见鬼。那么大的地方，还不把我吓的要死！”
ANDY安迪
Not me. I didn‘t shoot my wife and I didn‘t shoot her lover， and whatever mistakes I made I‘ve paid
for and then some. That hotel and that boat……I don‘t think it‘s too much to want. To look at the stars
just after sunset. Touch the sand. Wade in the water. Feel free.
“不应该这样。我没杀死我的妻子，也没杀死她的情夫，而且无论什么样的错误我已经受到惩罚。旅馆和船，我不认为这有什么难以得到。日落看星辰，走到沙滩，踩着海浪，感受自由。”
RED瑞德
Goddamn it， Andy， stop! Don‘t do that to yourself! Talking shitty pipedreams! Mexico‘s down there， and you‘re in here， and that‘s the way it is!
“天杀的！安迪，停止！别那样想！也别说那些狗屁的白日梦！墨西哥远在天边，而你却在这儿，情况就是这样。”
ANDY安迪
You‘re right. It‘s down there， and I‘m in here. I guess it comes down to a simple choice， really. Get
busy living or get busy dying.
“你说的对，它在那儿，我在这儿。我想是该做选择的时候了，该做了。要么忙着活，要么忙着死。”
Red snaps a look. 瑞德瞅了一眼安迪。
RED瑞德
What the hell does that mean？ “那到底是什么意思？”
Andy rises and walks away. Red lunges to his feet. 安迪站起身走开，瑞德也赶紧站起来。
RED瑞德
Andy？ “安迪？”
ANDY安迪
（turns back） （转身）Red， if you ever get out of here， do me a favor. There‘s this big hayfield up near Buxton. You know where Buxton is？
“瑞德，如果你有一天你出去了，帮我个忙。巴克斯顿附近有个大干草场，你知道巴克斯顿吗？”
RED瑞德
（nods） （点头）Lots of hayfields there. “那有很多草场。”
ANDY安迪
One in particular. Got a long rock wall with a big oak at the north end. Like something out of a Robert Frost poem. It‘s where I asked my （MORE）（q14） （cont.）wife to marry me. We‘d gone for a picnic. We made love under that tree. I asked and she said yes. （beat） Promise me， Red. If you ever get out， find that spot. In the base of that wall you‘ll find a rock that has no earthly business in a Maine hayfield. A piece of black volcanic glass. You‘ll find something buried under it I want you to have.
“一个很特殊的。沿着石头墙往北走到头，有一棵大橡树，有点像罗伯特.弗洛斯特诗中写的那样，那是我向我妻子求婚的地方。我们去那儿野餐，在树下做爱。然后我求婚，她应允了。答应我，瑞德。如果你能出去，找到那个地方。在那堵石墙的墙基，你会发现有一块与缅因州任何干草场都不同的岩石。一块黑色的火山玻璃，下面埋着东西，我想让你把它取走。”
RED瑞德
What？ What‘s buried there？ “什么东西？那儿埋的什么？”
ANDY安迪
You‘ll just have to pry up that rock and see. “你翻开岩石就知道了。”
Andy turns and walks away. 安迪转身走了。
206 INT -- MESS HALL -- DAY （1966） 内景―食堂―白天
RED瑞德
I tell you， the man was talkin‘ crazy. I‘m worried， I truly am.
“告诉你们，他说话都有些不对劲了，我很担心，真的很担心。”
SKEET斯基特
We ought to keep an eye on him. “我们应该盯紧他。”
ZIGGER齐格
That‘s fine， during the day. But at night he‘s got that cell all to himself.
“那很好，在白天可以，可晚上他一人在牢房呆着呀。”
HEYWOOD海沃德
Oh Lord. Andy come down to the loading dock today. Asked me for a length of rope. Six foot long.
“哦，上帝。安迪今天到装卸处，找我要了根六英尺长的绳子。”
SNOOZE斯诺
Shit! You gave it to him？ “见鬼！你给他了？”
HEYWOOD海沃德
Sure I did. I mean why wouldn‘t I？“当然！我为什么不给？”
FLOYD弗洛伊德
Christ! Remember Brooks Hatlen？ “老天！还记得布鲁克斯.哈特兰吗？”
HEYWOOD海沃德
How the hell was I s‘pose to know？ “我又怎么会知道呢！”
ZIGGER齐格
Andy‘d never do that. Never. “安迪不会那样的，不会！”
They all look to Red. 他们都看向瑞德。
RED瑞德
Every man‘s got a breaking point. “每个人的都会有忍耐的极限。”
207 EXT -- PRISON YARD -- ANGLE ON P.A. -- DUSK （1966） 207 外景―操场―扬声器
VOICE （over P.A.） Report to your cellblocks for evening count.
人声（通过扬声器）“返回牢房，例行点名。”
BOOM DOWN to Red and the boys. Convicts drift past them.
镜头快速向下移到瑞德那伙人，犯人们从他们身边涌过。
FLOYD弗洛伊德
Where the hell is he？ “他到底在哪儿？”
HEYWOOD海沃德
Probably still up in the warden‘s. “可能还在监狱长那儿。”
TOWER GUARD哨塔守卫
（via bullhorn） YOU MEN! YOU HEAR THAT ANNOUNCEMENT OR ZUST TOO STUPID TO UNDERSTAND？
（通过扩音器）“你们！你们没听到喊话，还是笨到听不懂？”
SKEET斯基特
Christ. What do we do？ “天！我们怎么办？”
FLOYD弗洛伊德
Nothing we can do. Not tonight. “没有办法，今晚不行。”
HEYWOOD海沃德
Let‘s pull him aside tomorrow， all of us. Have a word with him. Ain‘t that right， Red？
“明天我们所有的人把他拉到一边，与他仔细的谈一下。对吗？瑞德。”
RED瑞德
（unconvinced） Yeah. Sure. That‘s right.（没信心的）“是呀，当然，没错。”
20B INT -- NORTON‘S OFFICE -- NIGHT （1966） 208 内景―诺顿办公室―夜晚
Andy‘s working away. Norton pokes his head in. 安迪在埋头工作，诺顿探进头来。
NORTON诺顿
Lickety-split. I wanna get home. “快点儿！我要回家了。”
ANDY安迪

Just about done， sir. “马上就完，先生。”
We follow Norton to his wife‘s sampler. He swings it aside， works the combination dial， opens the wall safe. Andy moves up， shoves in the black ledger and files. Norton shuts the safe.
诺顿走她妻子的刺绣作品跟前，把它移开，转动密码盘，打开墙上的保险柜。安迪走上前，把帐本和文件塞入，诺顿关上保险柜。
ANDY安迪
Three deposits tonight. “今晚三笔款项。”
Andy hands him the envelopes. Norton heads for the door.
安迪把信封递给他，诺顿朝门口走去。
NORTON诺顿
Get my stuff down t‘laundry. And shine my shoes. I want ‘em lookin‘ like mirrors. （pauses at door）
Nice havin‘ you back， Andy. Place just wasn‘t the same without you.
“把我的衣服拿到洗衣房，再擦亮我的鞋子，要能照得出人影来。（在门口停下来）很高兴你回来，安迪，没你还真不行。”
Norton exits. Andy turns to the laundry. He opens the shoebox. Nice pair of dress shoes inside. He sighs， glances down at the old ragged pair of work shoes on his own feet.
诺顿走了，安迪走到诺顿的衣物前，打开鞋盒，里面是一双优质的皮鞋。安迪叹息，低头看看自己脚上穿的已经破烂的工作鞋。
209 INT -- NORTON‘S OFFICE -- NIGHT （1966） 209 内景―诺顿办公室―夜晚
Andy is diligently shining Norton‘s shoes. 安迪在努力的擦鞋。
210 INT -- PRISON CORRIDOR -- NIGHT （1966） 210 内景―监狱走廊―夜晚
Andy trudges down the hallway， laundry slung over his shoulder，
安迪费力的走着，肩上挂着诺顿的衣物。
211 INT -- CELLBLOCK FIVE -- NIGHT （1966） 211 内景―五号囚楼―夜晚
Andy nods to the GUARD. The guard BUZZES him through.
安迪对守卫点点头，守卫让他进去。
212 INT -- RED‘S CELL -- NIGHT （1966） 212 内景―瑞德的号房―夜晚
Red hears Andy coming， moves to the bars. He watches Andy come up to the second tier and pause before his cell.
瑞德听到安迪的声音，走到栅栏前，他看着安迪上了二层然后停在自己的号房前。
GUARD （O.S.） 守卫
Open number twelve! “打开12号。”
Andy gazes directly at Red. A beat of eye contact. Red shakes his head. Don‘t do it. Andy smiles， eerily calm……and enters his cell. The door closes. KA-THUMP! We hold on Red‘s face.
安迪正好看到瑞德，两人目光发生触碰。瑞德摇摇头，示意不要那样做。安迪微笑，出奇的平静，走进了牢房，牢门咣铛的关上，镜头对准瑞德的脸庞。
213 INT -- ANDY‘S CELL -- NIGHT （1966） 213 内景―安迪的号房―夜晚
Andy is polishing a chess piece. 安迪正在打磨棋子。
VOICE （O.S.） 人声
Lights out! “熄灯！”
The lights bump off. He finishes polishing， holds up the piece to admire. A pawn. He sets it down with the others -- and we realize it‘s the final glance for the board. A full set. He gazes up at Racquel and smiles. Pulls a six foot length of rope from under his pillow. Lets it uncoil to the floor.
灯灭掉了，他结束打磨，举起手中的棋子欣赏--一个卒子。安迪把它与其它的棋子放到一起，给人一种这是最后一次看到这棋盘的感觉，一整副象棋。他盯着墙上的兰蔻微笑着，从枕头下拿出一根六英尺长的绳子，让它卷开，直到地板。
214 INT -- RED‘S CELL -- NIGHT （1966） 214内景―瑞德的号房―夜晚
Red sits in the dark， a bundle of nerves， trying to hold himself still. He feels like he might scream or shake to pieces. The seconds tick by， each an eternity.
瑞德坐在黑暗中，极度紧张，他在努力的控制自己，生怕自己会尖叫、颤抖起来。时间仿佛停滞，每一秒都那么漫长。
RED （V.O.） 瑞德（旁白）
I have had some long nights in stir. Alone in the dark with nothing but your thoughts， time can
draw out like a blade……
“我在牢里经历过一些这样的夜晚，独自呆在黑暗中，除了思考什么都没有，时间变缓延长……”
A FLASH OF LIGHTNING outside his window sends harsh barred shadows jittering across the cell. A storm breaking.
闪电夺目，把牢房的栅影颤抖地映出，暴雨突来。
RED （V.O.） 瑞德
That was the longest night of my life…… “这是我一生中最长的夜晚……”
215 INT -- CELLBLOCK FIVE -- MORNING （1966） 215内景―五号囚楼―早晨
KA-THUMP! The master lock is thrown. The cons emerge from their cells and the headcount begins. Red looks back to see if Andy‘s in line. He‘s not. Suddenly the count stalls:
咣啷！囚楼主锁弹开，犯人们各自走出牢房等待点名。瑞德回头看安迪，他不在队伍中。点名突然停止。
GUARD 守卫
Man missing on tier two! Cell 12! “二层少人！12号牢房！”
The head bull， HAIG， checks his list: 卫兵头，海格，查看名单。
HAIG 海格
Dufresne？ Get your ass out here， boy! You‘re holding up the show! （no answer） Don‘t make me come down there now! I‘ll thump your skull for you!
“杜弗兰！给我滚出来，小子！你在耽误事情！（没人回答）你要再不出来，我就走下去敲你的脑袋！”
Still no answer. Glaring， Haig stalks down the tier， clipboard in hand. His men fall in behind.
仍然没有回答。海格瞪着眼睛，怒气冲冲的走下来，手里拿着点名册，后面跟着手下。
HAIG 海格
Dufresne， dammit， you‘re putting me behind! You better be sick or dead in there， I shit you not!
“杜弗兰，妈的，你这是在折腾我！你最好是病倒，要不就是死在那儿，否则我要你好看！”
They arrive at bars. Their faces go slack. Stunned.
他们来到12号牢房门口，一个个脸色渐变，呆若木鸡。
HAIG（Softly）Oh my Holy God.海格（轻轻地）“哦，我的上帝呀！”
216 REVERSE ANGLE 216视角反转
reveals the cell is empty. Everything neat and tidy. Even the bunk is stowed. They wrench the door open and rush in， tossing the cell in a panic as if Andy might be lurking under the Kleenex or the toothpaste. CAMERA ROCKETS IN on Haig as he spins toward us， bellowing at the top of his lungs:
牢房是空的，东西整洁的摆放着，床铺也叠的很好。他们推开门挤进去，惊慌地翻着牢里的各个角落，好像安迪会藏在纸盒或牙膏里。镜头快速对准海格，他转过身面对镜头，用尽力气大叫：
HAIG 海格
WHAT THE FUCK! “操他妈的！”
217 INT -- NORTON‘S OFFICE -- MORNING （1966） 217内景―诺顿办公室―早晨
Norton is kicking back with the morning paper. He notices ha dingy his shoes are. He glances at the shoebox on the desk. kicks his shoes off， opens the box -- and gulls out Andy‘s grimy work shoes. He stares blankly. What the fuck indeed.
诺顿踢着报纸，看到自己鞋子很脏，于是踢掉脚上的鞋子，把桌上的鞋盒打开―安迪的脏鞋在里面。他傻傻的看着，这他妈的是怎么回事？
An ALARM STARTS BLARING throughout the prison. He looks up.
警报声响彻整个监狱，诺顿抬起头来。
218 EXT -- PRISON -- DAY （1966） 218 外景―监狱―白天
Norton and Hadley stride across the grounds， ALARM BLARING.
随着警报声，诺顿和哈雷大步走来。
NORTON诺顿
I want every man on that cellblock questioned! Start with that friend of his!
“囚楼里每一个人都要问到！从他的朋友开始！”
HADLEY哈雷
who？ 谁？
16. INT -- CELLBLOCK FIVE -- RED‘S CELL -- DAY内景―五号囚楼―瑞德的号房―白天
Red watches as Norton storms up with an entourage of guards.
瑞德看到诺顿带着一队随从怒气冲天的走上来。
NORTON诺顿
Him. “他”。

Red‘s eyes widen. Guards yank him from his cell. 瑞德睁大双眼，卫兵把他从牢房里拽出来。
220 INT -- ANDY‘S CELL -- DAY （1966） 220 内景―安迪的号房―白天
Norton steps to the center of the room， working himself up into a fine rage:
诺顿走到牢房中间，开始大发雷霆。
NORTON诺顿
What do you mean "he just wasn‘t here？" Don‘t say that to me， Haig! Don‘t say that to me again!
“他不在这儿是什么意思？别那样对我说，海格！别再那样对我说！”
HAIG海格
But sir! He wasn‘t! He isn‘t! “可是长官！他就是没在，没在！”
NORTON诺顿
I can see that， Haig! You think I‘m blind？ Is that what you‘re saying？ Am I blind， Haig？
“我看得见，海格！你以为我瞎了么？我是说你是什么意思？我瞎了么，海格？”
HAIG海格
No sir! “不，长官！”
Norton grabs the clipboard and thrusts it at Hadley. 诺顿抓过来点名册塞给哈雷。
NORTON诺顿
What about you？ You blind？ Tell me what this is! “你呢？你也瞎了？告诉我这是什么！”
HADLEY哈雷
Last night‘s count. “昨晚的点名。”
NORTON诺顿
You see Dufresne‘s name？ I sure do! Right there， see？ "Dufresne." He was in his cell at lights out! Stands to reason he‘d still be here this morning! I want him found! Not tomorrow， not after breakfast! Now!
“你看到杜弗兰的名字了么？我看到了，就在这儿，看到了么？杜弗兰，灯熄时还在牢房！今天早晨他应该还在这儿！我要找到他！不是明天，不是早饭后，我要现在！”
Haig scurries out， gathering men. Norton spins to Red.
海格急忙转身出去召集人手，诺顿转身对着瑞德。
NORTON诺顿
Well？ “你呢？”
RED瑞德
Well what？ “我怎么？”
NORTON诺顿
I see you two all the time， you‘re thick as thieves， you are! He must‘a said something!
“我知道你俩天天在一起，亲密无比，狼狈为奸！他一定说了什么！”
RED瑞德
No sir， he didn‘t! “不，长官，他没说！”
Norton spreads his arms evangelist-style， spins slowly around.
诺顿像布道者一样张开双臂，慢慢转动身体。
NORTON诺顿
Lord! It‘s a miracle! Man up and vanished like a fart in the wind! Nothin‘ left but some damn rocks on the windowsill and that cupcake on the wall! Let‘s ask her! Maybe she knows! What say there， Fuzzy- Britches？ Feel like talking？ Guess not. Why should you be different？
“主啊！真是奇迹！人就这么消失了，像在风中放了一个屁！就剩下这些倒霉的石头和墙上的那个cupcake！（q15）我们来问她吧！也许她知道！说吧，水裤妞！想谈谈么？我想不会。你又有什么不同？”
Red exchanges looks with the guards. Even they‘re nervous. Norton scoops a handful rocks off the sill. He hurls them at the wall one at a time， shattering them， punctuating his words:
瑞德与卫兵们面面相觑，都有些紧张。诺顿从窗台抓起把石子，咒骂着，一个个的扔到墙上，掷碎。
NORTON诺顿
It‘s a conspiracy! （SMASH） That‘s what this is! （SMASH） It‘s one big damn conspiracy! （SMASH） And everyone‘s in on it! （SMASH） Including her!
“这是阴谋！（掷碎石子）一定是这么回事！（掷碎石子）一个大大的见鬼的阴谋！（掷碎石子）包括她！”
He sends the last rock whizzing right at Racquel. No smash.
他把最后一粒石子奋力扔向墙上的兰寇（海报），这次石子没有碎。
It takes a moment for this to sink in. All eyes go to her. The rock went through her. There‘s a small hole in the poster where her navel used to be. You could hear a pin drop. Norton reaches up， sinks his finger into the hole. He keeps pushing……and his entire hand disappears into the wall.
大家愣住了，所有人都看向兰寇。石子穿过了她，在她的肚脐部位穿了一个小孔。大家安静的掉根针都能听见。诺顿走上前，把手指伸进小孔，继续伸，一直把整支手都伸进了墙里。
221 ANGLE FROM BEHIND POSTER 221[视角来自海报后面]
as Norton rips the poster from before our eyes. Stunned faces peer in. CAMERA PULLS LOWLY BACK……to reveal the long crumbling tunnel in the wall.
诺顿把海报撕掉，露出大家震惊的面孔。镜头慢慢后推，墙上一条长长的隧道显现出来。
222 INT -- ANDY‘S CELL -- MINUTES LATER （1966） 222 内景―安迪的号房―几分钟后
RORY TREMONT， a guard barely out of his teens， tries not to look nervous as they lash a rope around his chest. He‘s getting instructions from six different people at once.
罗里.崔蒙特，一个稚气未脱的卫兵，正努力抑制自己的恐慌，他们在往他身上绑绳子，同时接受着六人不同的指示。
RED （V.O.）瑞德（旁白）
They got this skinny kid named Rory Tremont to go in the hole. He wasn‘t much in the brains department， but he possessed the one most important qualification for the job…… （they slap a flashlight in his hands） ……he was willing to go.
“他们把这个叫罗里.崔蒙特的瘦小孩子弄进洞里，在智囊团里，他可什么也算不上。但他却最合适来做这个工作……（他们往他手里塞了个电筒）他自愿去的。”
223 INT -- TUNNEL -- DAY （1966） 223 内景―隧道―白天
Rory squeezes down the tunnel on his belly. 罗里紧紧的贴着隧道爬行。
RED （V.O.） 瑞德（旁白）
Probably thought he‘d win a Bronze Star or something.
“也许认为他能获得一枚铜星奖章之类的吧。”
224 INT -- VERTICAL SHAFT -- DAY （1966） 224 内景―竖井―白天
Dark as midnight. Concrete walls rise on both sides. If you imagine them as two huge slices of bread， the meat of this particular sandwich is about three feet of airspace and a dark tangle of pipes between the cellblocks. Rory‘s appears， shining his flashlight down the shaft. Somewhere， a rat SQUEAKS.
如同午夜般的黑暗，两边是混凝土墙壁。可以想像一下两片巨大的面包，这块特殊的三明治中间的肉大约有三英尺厚，牢房间的黑色管子纠缠在一起。罗里爬出来，用手电照着竖井。某处，一支老鼠吱吱叫着。
RED （V.O.） 瑞德（旁白）
It was his third day on the job. “这是他干这活儿的第三天。”
RORY 罗里
Warden？ There‘s a space here between the walls ‘bout three feet across! Smells pretty damn bad!
“监狱长，墙壁间有空地儿，大约三英尺宽。气味很难闻！”
NORTON （O.S.） 诺顿
I don‘t care what it smells like! “我不管有多难闻！”
HADLEY （O.S.） 哈雷
Go on， boy! We got a hold of you! “继续，孩子！我们支持你！”
Looking none too happy about it， Rory squeezes from the tunnel and dangles into the shaft. He gets lowered， shining his light， smothered by darkness. Not having a good time.
看到每个人都不高兴，罗里从隧道中爬出，摇晃着进入竖井。他往下爬，打着手电，黑暗不时的把他遮住，真够难受的！
RORY 罗里
Hoo-whee! Smell‘s gettin‘ worse! 呜~~，越来越难闻！
NORTON （O.S.） 诺顿
Never mind， I said! Just keep going! “不要管！我命令，继续！”
RORY 罗里
Smells pretty damn bad， Warden! In fact， it smells just like shit.
“简直太难闻了，监狱长，闻起来就是大粪！”
His feet touch the ground -- or what he assumed was the ground. It‘s not. In fact， it‘s just what it smells like. He sinks in past his ankles. He slips and sits heavily in it.
他脚着了地，或着说是他感觉是地。其实不是，事实上是他用嗅觉感觉到的。他的脚踝被淹没，重重的滑倒在里面。

RORY 罗里
Oh God， that‘s what it is， it‘s shit. oh my God it‘s shit. pull me out ‘fore I blow my groceries， oh
shit it‘s shit， oh my Gawwwwwwd!
“哦，上帝！就是屎，是屎！赶紧把我拉起来，否则我就要吐了！哦，屎，就是屎！我的上帝！”
225 INT -- ANDY‘S CELL -- DAY （1966） 225 内景―安迪的号房―白天
Red and others listen to violent barfing from below.
瑞德和其他人听到下面传来强烈的呕吐声。
RED （V.O.） 瑞德
And then came the unmistakable sound of Rory Tremont losing his last few meals. The whole cellblock heard it. I mean， it echoed.
“无可避免的，罗里接连几顿饭都吐，整个监狱都听得到，我是说，它回荡在监狱中。”
That‘s it for Red. He starts laughing. Laughing， hell， he‘s bellowing laughter， laughing so hard he has to hold himself， laughing so hard tears are pouring down his cheeks. The look of rage on Norton‘s face makes him laugh all the harder.
这刺激了瑞德，他开始笑。拼命的笑，扯着嗓子笑，笑的如此之烈，难以抑制，笑得眼泪淌过面颊。而诺顿满脸的怒气，更令他大笑不止。
226 INT -- SOLITARY WING -- NIGHT （1966） 226 内景―禁闭室门―夜晚
Abrupt silence. LOW ANGLE on steel door. 突然寂静，低角镜头照在门上。
RED （V.O.） 瑞德（旁白）
I laughed myself right into solitary. Two week stretch. “我把自己直接笑进了禁闭室，两星期。”
227 INT -- SOLITARY -- NIGHT （1966） 227 内景―禁闭室―夜晚
RED瑞德
It‘s shit， it‘s shit， oh my God it‘s shit…… “是屎，是屎，我的上帝，就是屎……”
He starts laughing all over again， fit to split. 他又开始大笑，笑得死去活来。
RED （V.O.） 瑞德
Andy once talked about doing easy time in the hole. Now I knew what he meant.
“安迪曾说过在洞里坐牢很轻松，现在我明白他的意思了。”
228 EXT--SHAWSHANK PRISON--WIDE SHOT--DAY 外景―肖申克监狱―宽镜头―白天
Virgin landscape. Charming rural road. Suddenly， State Police cruisers rocket up the road with SIRENS AND LIGHTS.
亮丽的风景，迷人的乡间公路。突然，警灯闪烁的州警巡逻车，警笛大作的疾驰出来。
RED （V.O.） 瑞德
In 1966， Andy Dufresne escaped from Shawshank Prison.
“1966年，安迪.杜弗兰从肖申克监狱脱逃。”
229 EXT -- FIELD -- DAY （1966） 229 内景―操场―白天
Shawshank is half a mile distant. WE TRACK ALONG a muddy creek as STATE TROOPERS and PRISON GUARDS scour the brush. A TROOPEE fishes a prison uniform out of the creek with a long stick.
离肖申克监狱半英里，镜头沿着泥泞的小河，展现出州警和监狱守卫在搜索灌木丛。
RED （V.O.） 瑞德
All they found of him was a muddy set of prison clothes， a bar of soap， and an old rock-hammer damn near worn down to the nub.
“他们只发现了他的一套沾满泥浆的狱服，一条肥皂和一把磨得几乎只剩下把儿的石锤。”
trooper g2 pulls the rock-hammer from the weeds. swish pan to a police photo grapher. His FLASHBULB GLARE produces:
某州警从草丛中捡起石锤，镜头迅速移到警方摄影师，他的闪光灯发出眩目的光芒。
230 A BLACK AND WHITE STILL PHOTO 230 一张黑白照片
of the hapless cops posing with Andy‘s reeking uniform and the worn rock-hammer. PUSH IN on the hammer.
失望的警察们展示安迪散发着臭气的狱服和那把破旧的石锤，镜头推近石锤。
RED （V.O.） 瑞德
I remember thinking it would take a man six hundred years to tunnel through the wall with it. Andy did it in less than twenty.
“我曾经说过一个人用这把锤头在墙上挖通隧道，需要花六百年，安迪用了不到二十年。”
231 INT -- ANDY‘S CELL -- NIGHT （1949） 231 内景―安迪的号房―夜晚
Once again， we see Andy using the rock-hammer to scratch his name into the cement. Suddenly， a palm-sized chunk of cement pops free and hits the floor. He stares down at it.
镜头闪现，又看到安迪用石锤在水泥墙上刻他的名字。突然，一块巴掌大的水泥掉下来砸到地上，他愣住了。
232 INT -- ANDY‘S CELL -- NIGHT （1949） 232 内景―安迪的号房―夜晚
Andy lies in the dark， studying the chunk of concrete in his hands. Considering the possibilities. Wrestling with hope.
安迪躺在黑暗中，研究手中的混凝土，思考可能，斟酌希望。
RED （V.O.） 瑞德
Andy loved geology. I imagine it appealed to his meticulous nature. An ice age here， a million years of mountain-building there， plates of bedrock grinding against each other over a span of millennia……
“安迪热爱地质学，我想这归于他极富细心的性格。地质学里面有冰川期，百万年的造山运动，还有经过上千年互相碰撞挤磨形成的岩床……”
233 INT -- ANDY‘S CELL -- NIGHT （1949） 233 内景―安迪的号房―夜晚
Andy stands peering at the small hole left by the fallen chunk. Carefully runs his fingertip over it.
安迪站在地上，盯着那个由于掉下来的混凝土块而形成的小洞，小心的用手指摸来摸去。
RED （V.O.） 瑞德
Geology is the study of pressure and time. That‘s all it takes， really. Pressure and time.
“地质学是研究时间和压力的，这就是全部所需，真的，时间和压力。”
234 INT -- ANDY‘S CELL -- NIGHT （1951） 234 内景―安迪的号房―夜晚
Rita is now on the wall， hanging down over Andy‘s back. 丽塔挂在墙上，搭在安迪的后背。
RED （V.O.） 瑞德
That and a big damn poster. “和一张大大的海报。”
TRACK IN to reveal Andy scraping patiently at the concrete. 镜头显现出安迪在耐心的挖墙。
RED （V.O.） 瑞德
Like I said. In prison， a man‘ll do most anything to keep his mind occupied.
“正如我所说，在监狱，人们为了弥补空虚，会做任何事情。”
He hears FOOTSTEPS approaching. He smoothes the poster down and dives into bed. A GUARD strolls by a moment later， shining his flashlight into the cell.
听到走进的脚步声，安迪抚平海报，扑到床上。一个守卫走过来，用手电巡视牢房。
235 EXT -- PRISON YARD -- DAY （1953） 235 外景―操场―白天
Andy strolls along， whistling softly， hands in both pockets. TILT DOWN to his pantleg. Concrete grit trickles out.
安迪在散步，吹着口哨，两手插兜。镜头斜下到他的裤腿处，混凝土碎末从裤管处滑出。
RED （V.O.） 瑞德
It turns out Andy‘s favorite hobby was totin‘ his wall out into the exercise yard a handful at a time……
“事实证明，安迪最喜欢做的事情是把他的墙壁一把一把的带到操场上……”
236 INT -- 2ND TIER -- NIGHT （1962） 236 内景―2层―夜晚
A GUARD strolls the tier， shining his flashlight into the cells. He pauses at Andy‘s bars， playing the beam over the sleeping form huddled under the blankets.
守卫走上二层，拿手电照着牢房。他停在安迪的栅栏前，把光柱打在那团盖着毯子的人形上。
p37 REVERSE ANGLE （FROM INS1DE ANDY‘S CELL） 237 镜头反转，从牢房里往外拍
We see what the guard doesn‘t: instead of Andy‘s head under the blanket， it‘s a wadded-up pillow. The flashlight plays across the cell， pinning Marilyn Monroe in a circle of light.
毯子底下并不是安迪的头，而是一个填充起来的枕头。手电掠过牢房，玛里琳.门罗出现在电筒的光圈中。
238 ANGLE FROM BEHIND POSTER 238 视角转到海报背面
The light illuminates her face through the paper. WIDEN to reveal Andy lying in his tunnel， holding his breath. The light clicks off. The FOOTSTEPS move on. He gets back to work.
光柱透过海报照亮了她的脸庞，镜头扩展，安迪正躺在遂道中，屏住呼吸。手电熄灭，脚步声离去，他接着工作。
RED （V.O.） 瑞德
While the rest of us slept， Andy spent years workin‘ the nightshift……
“当其他人都在睡觉的时候，安迪加了数年的夜班。”
239 INT -- SHAFT -- NIGHT （1965） 239 内景―竖井―夜晚

BOOMING SLOWLY UP the shaft. Rats scurry the pipes. Suddenly， a piece of concrete the size of a quarter jumps free and plummets down the shaft as the rock-hammer pushes through. The pick withdraws， replaced by Andy‘s peering eye.
沉闷的声音在竖井内响起，老鼠在管道上乱跑。突然，随着那把石锤的探出，一块混凝土迸出并坠落井下。石锤收回，取而代之的是安迪隐现的目光。
240 A SERIES OF DISSOLVES （1965 through 1966） 240 一系列淡入淡出的画面（1965--1966）
takes us through the widening of the hole. First as big as a tea cup. Then a saucer. Then a dinner plate.
墙上的洞在不断的扩大。先是茶杯大小，接着若碟子般，然后是大盘子。
RED （V.O.） 瑞德
Probably took him most of a year just to get his head through.
“也许仅能让脑袋通过就花了他近一年的时间。”
Andy finally gets his head through， scraping his ears. He‘s got a penlight clenched in his teeth. He peers down into the shaft. At the very bottom， maybe 20 feet down， a big ceramic pipe runs the length of the cellblock. Beneath its coat of grime and dust， the word "SEWER" is stenciled.
安迪最终磕磕碰碰的伸出头来，嘴里咬着一个笔形电筒。他向下探视竖井，就在底部，大概有20英尺高吧，一根粗大的陶瓷管道毗邻着囚楼。在肮脏的外皮下，印着“下水道”的字样。
241 EXT -- LOADING DOCK ACCESS -- NIGHT （1966） 241 外景―装卸处入口―夜晚
ANGLE LOOKING STRAIGHT DOWN. Below us， Tommy Williams lies facedown at Norton‘s feet. Blood is spreading， fanning out on the pavement. Norton turns， strolls out of frame.
镜头垂直向下，汤米.威谦姆斯脸朝下趴在诺顿的脚边，鲜血流出，在道路上散开。诺顿转身走出画面。
RED （V.O.） 瑞德
I guess after Tommy was killed， Andy decided he‘d been here just about long enough.
“我想汤米被杀之后，安迪觉得他在这地方已经呆够了。”
Again we see: Andy working. Norton pokes his head in.
画面再次显现：安迪在作账，诺顿把头探进来。
NORTON 诺顿
Lickety-split. I wanna get home. “快点儿，我要回家了。”
ANDY 安迪
Just about done， sir. “马上就完，先生。”
Norton crosses to the wall safe and works the dial， his back turned. This time， though， we stay on Andy:
诺顿走到墙上的保险柜处，转动密码盘，然后他转过身。但是这次，镜头一直冲着安迪。
He pulls up his sweater， yanks out a large black book and a stack of files， lays them on the desk. He then grabs the real ledger and files， jams them down his pants and smoothes his sweater down. He picks up the bogus stack， crosses to Norton， and shoves everything in.
他撩起毛衣，迅速拿出来一大本黑色的书和一堆文件，放在桌子上。然后把真正的账本和文件，塞进裤子里，把毛衣抚平。他拿起假账，向诺顿走去，把手里所有的东西塞进保险柜。
243 INT -- HALLWAY -- NIGHT （1966） 243 内景―走廊―夜晚
Norton exits his office and strolls off whistling. PUSH IN on the open door. We see Andy at the guard‘s desk， pulling Norton‘s dress shoes from their box.
诺顿走出办公室，吹着口哨离开。镜头推近开着的门，安迪在守卫的桌前，从鞋盒中拿出诺顿的皮鞋。
RED （V.O.） 瑞德
Andy did like he was told. Buffed those shoes to a high mirror shine.
“安迪照办了诺顿的话，把那双鞋擦得如镜子般闪光。”
244 INT -- NORTON‘S OFFICE -- MINUTES LATER （1966） 内景―诺顿办公室―几分钟后
Andy sorts through Norton‘s three suits. He pauses， checking the gray pinstripe. Nice.
安迪整理着诺顿的三套衣服，他停了下来，仔细看灰色条纹的那件，不错！
245 INT -- CELLBLOCK FIVE -- NIGHT （1966） 245 内景―五号囚楼―夜晚
The guard BUZZES Andy through. Andy walks toward us. 随着守卫的声音，安迪走过来。
RED （V.O.） 瑞德
The guard simply didn‘t notice. Neither did I. I mean， seriously， how often do you really look at a
man‘s shoes？
“不仅守卫没有注意到，我也没有。我想，有多少人能认真的去注意一个男人的鞋子呢！”
TILT DOWN as he passes by. Yep， he‘s wearing Norton‘s shoes.
安迪经过的时候，镜头向下斜照。没错，他正穿着诺顿的皮鞋。
246 INT -- ANDY‘S CELL -- NIGHT （1966） 246 内景―安迪的牢房―夜晚
The lights go out. Andy places the last chess piece. Gazes up at Racquel. Smiles. Pulls the rope from under his pillow. He stands and unbuttons his prison shirt， revealing Norton‘s gray pinstripe suit underneath. A FLASH OF LIGHTNING floods the cell， throwing wild shadows.
灯熄了，安迪放好最后一个棋子，看着墙上的兰寇，微笑。他从枕头下取出绳子，站起身解开囚服的扣子，露出了里面穿着的诺顿的灰色条纹装。一道闪电照亮了牢房，光影绰绰。
247 INT -- ANDY‘S CELL -- NIGHT （1966） 247 内景―安迪的牢房―夜晚
The storm rages. Andy， naked， carefully slips Norton‘s folded suit into a large industrial Zip-Lock bag. Next to go in are the shoes， chess pieces （already in a smaller bag）， black ledger and files. Last but not least， a bar of soap wrapped in a towel.
暴风雨猛烈，安迪赤裸着身体，小心的将叠好的衣服塞进一个大密封袋中，接着是皮鞋，棋子（已经装在一个小袋中），账本和文件。
248 INT -- TUNNEL -- NIGHT （1966） 248 内景―隧道―夜晚
Andy， again wearing prison clothes， inches down the tunnel.
再次穿上囚服的安迪，在隧道中挪动。
249 INT -- SHAFT -- NIGHT （1966） 249 内景―竖井―夜晚
Andy squeezes through the hole head-first， emerges to the waist， He reaches for the opposite wall， manages to snag a steel conduit with his fingers.
安迪挤出隧道，先是头，接着是腰。他碰到了对面的墙，设法用手指抓住一根钢管。
Suddenly， a huge rat darts for his hand. Andy yanks away and almost plummets head-first down the shaft. He dangles wildly upside-down for a moment， arms windmilling， then gets his hands pressed firmly against the opposite wall. The rat scurries off， pissed.
突然，一只大老鼠飞快的从他的手上跑过，安迪吓得迅速缩手，几乎头朝下掉下去。他摇晃着、手臂挥动着倒挂了一会儿，然后用手使劲的抵住对面的墙，那老鼠匆匆地跑掉了。
Andy snags the conduit again. He contorts out of the hole and dangles into the shaft. We now see the purpose for the rope: the plastic bag hangs from his ankle with about two feet of slack， He kicks his legs across the shaft， gets his feet braced. Wit3 his back against one wall and feet against the other， he starts down the shaft. Sliding dangerously. Using pipes for handholds. Flinching as rats dart this way and that， scurrying in the shadows. He drops the last few feet to the bottom.
安迪再次抓住钢管，他扭动着从洞里挤出，摇晃着进入竖井。现在可以看到绳子的作用，塑料袋挂在离脚踝处大约两英尺处。他踢动双腿，让双脚做好准备。然后用背顶住墙，用脚抵住对面的墙壁，开始往下走，用管道作把持，谨慎的滑动，并不时的躲闪着跑来跑去的老鼠，最终下到井底。
He approaches the ceramic sewer pipe and kneels before it. Pulls out the rock-hammer and says a quick silent prayer. Raises the rock-hammer high and swings it down with all his might. Once， twice -- third time lucky. An enormous eruption of sewage cascades into the air as if rocket-propelled， the Mount St. Helens of shit. Andy is instantly coated black. He turns away and heaves his guts out. The shit keeps coming.
他跪到陶瓷制的下水管道前，拿出石锤，迅速做了一个祷告。然后高高地扬起石锤，用尽所有力气砸下。一、二，三，第三次砸开了下水道。一股污水如同火箭一样喷发而出，一座喷发粪便的火山。安迪立刻就被弄了一身，他扭过身用力的呕吐。粪水继续涌出。
250 INT -- SEWER PIPE -- NIGHT （1966） 250 内景―下水道―夜晚
Andy peers down through the hole， playing his penlight around， The inside diameter is no more than two feet. Tight squeeze. Coated with crud. It seems to go on for miles. No turning back. He wriggles into the pipe and starts crawling， plastic bag dragging behind.
安迪往用电筒照着洞里望去，下水道的直径不到两英尺，空间极小，结满污垢，似乎有数英里长。没有回头路，安迪钻进下水管开始爬行，塑料袋拖在后面。
RED （V.O.） 瑞德
Andy crawled to freedom through five hundred yards of shit-smelling foulness I can‘t even imagine. Or maybe I just don‘t want to.
“安迪通过500码散发着恶臭的粪便爬向自由，我甚至无法想像！也许我根本就不想这样。”
251 EXT -- FIELD -- NIGHT （1966） 251 外景―旷野―夜晚
Rain is falling in solid sheets. Shawshank is half a mile distant. BOOM DOWN to reveal the creek……and PUSH IN toward the mouth of the sewer pipe that feeds into it.
大雨倾盆，肖申克监狱已在半英里之外，镜头移下，现出那条小河，然后继续推近直到下水道的出口，污水从此排入河里。
RED （V.O.） 瑞德
Five hundred yards. The length of five football fields. Just shy of half a mile.
“五百码，5个足球场的长度，几近半英里。”
Fingers appear， thrusting through the heavy-gauge wire mesh covering the mouth of the pipe. Andy‘s face looms from the darkness， peering out at freedom. He wrenches the mesh loose， pushes himself out， and plunges head-first into the creek. He comes up sputtering for breath. The water is waist-deep.
安迪的手指从出水口遮网那粗大的孔眼中伸了出来，面孔也从黑暗中显现，注视着自由。他弄松遮网，从管道中钻出，一头扎进水里。接着从水中出来，大口的呼吸，水深齐腰。
He wades upstream， ripping his clothes from his body. He gets his shirt off， spins it through the air over his head， flings the shirt away. He raises his arms to the sky， turning slowly， feeling the rain washing him clean. Exultant. Triumphant. A FLASH OF LIGHTNING arcs from horizon to horizon.
他朝上游走去，边走边脱掉衣服。他拿着脱下来的衬衣在头顶上挥舞着扔出。他冲着天空张开双臂，慢慢地转身，让雨水将自己冲刷干净，欣喜、狂欢！一道闪电划过地平线。
252 INT -- ANDY‘S TUNNEL -- DAY （1966） 252 内景―隧道―白天
Once again， we see stunned faces as CAMERA PULLS BACK.
镜头回退时，再次看到震惊的面孔。
RED （V.O.） 瑞德
The next morning， right about the time Racquel was spilling her little secret……
“第二天一早，兰寇被揭穿了她的小秘密……”
253 INT -- CASCO BANK OF PORTLAND -- MORNING 内景―波特兰凯斯科银行―早晨
The door opens. Spit-shined shoes enter. DOLLY the shoes to the counter.
大门打开，镜头跟着一双锃亮的皮鞋，走到柜台前。
RED （V.O.） 瑞德

……a man nobody ever laid eyes on before strolled into the Casco Bank of Portland. Until that moment， he didn‘t exist -- except on paper.
在进入波特兰凯斯科银行之前，从来没有人见过他。直到那一刻，他还并不存在―除了在纸上。
FEMALE TELLER （O.S.） 女银行出纳
May I help you？ “需要帮忙么？”
TILT UP to Andy. Smiling in Norton‘s gray pinstripe suit.
镜头由下往上，安迪穿着诺顿的灰条纹套装，微笑着。
ANDY 安迪
My name is Peter Stevens. I‘ve come to close out some accounts.
“我是皮特.斯蒂文，要结算一些账户。”
254 INT -- BANK -- SHORTLY LATER （1966） 254 内景―银行―一会儿
The teller is cutting a cashier‘s check while the MANAGER carefully examines Mr. Stevens‘ various I.D.s.
出纳员在开一张支票，而银行经理则仔细的检查斯蒂文先生的各种身份证明。
RED （V.O.） 瑞德
He had all the proper I.D. Driver‘s license， birth certificate， social security card. The signature was a spot-on match.
“他具备所有的证明，驾照，出生证，社会保险卡。签名也十分符合。”
MANAGER 银行经理
I must say I‘m sorry to be losing your business. I hope you‘ll enjoy living abroad.
“我很遗憾失去您这样一位客户，不过我还是希望您的国外生活愉快！”
ANDY 安迪
Thank you. I‘m sure I will. “谢谢你！我想会的。”
TELLER 出纳员
Here‘s your cashier‘s check， sir. Will there be anything else？
“这是您的银行支票，还有其它事情要帮忙么？”
ANDY 安迪
Please. Would you add this to your outgoing mail？ “请您把这个，帮我发出去。”
He hands her a package， stamped and addressed. Gives them a pleasant smile. Turns and strolls from the bank.
他递给出纳一个写好地址和贴上邮票的包裹，送出一个愉快的微笑，转身走出银行。
RED （V.O.） 瑞德
Mr. Stevens visited nearly a dozen banks in the Portland area that morning. All told， he blew town
with better than 370 thousand dollars of Warden Norton‘s money. Severance pay for nineteen years.
“那天早晨，斯蒂文先生走访了波特兰区十来家银行，声明了他的离去。带着诺顿典狱长的370，000美元，19年工龄的解雇金。”
255 INT -- OFFICE -- DAY （1966） 255 内景--办公室--白天
A MAN in shirtsleeves is going through the mail on his desk. He finds Andy‘s package， rips it open. Pulls out the black ledger and files. Scans a cover letter. Holy shit. He dashes to his door and yanks it open， revealing the words on the glass: "PORTLAND DAILY BUGLE -- Editor In Chief."
一个上身只穿件衬衣的人在检查桌子上的邮件，他看到了安迪的包裹。撕开后，抽出了帐本和文件，看完附信之后。他冲到门口，猛地拉开门，门上的玻璃写着：“波特兰军号日报--总编”
MAN 此人
Hal! Dave! Get your butts in here! “哈尔！戴夫！马上过来！”
256 INT -- SHAWSHANK PRISON -- DAY （1966） 256 内景--肖申克监狱--白天
Norton walks slowly toward his office. Dazed. The morning paper in his hand. He goes wordlessly past the DUTY GUARD into his office. Shuts the door. Lays the paper on his desk.
诺顿昏沉沉地慢慢走向他的办公室。手里拿着晨报，默默地走过值班警卫进入办公室。他关上门，把报纸放在桌子上。
The headline reads: "CORRUPTION AND MURDER AT SHAWSHANK." Below that， the sub-headline: "D.A. Has Ledger. Indictments Expected." Norton looks up as SIRENS SWELL in the distance.
报纸头条：“肖申克监狱的腐败和谋杀”，下面是副标题：“检察官拿到账本 准备指控”诺顿仰起头来，此时警笛声从远处传来，越来越大。
17. EXT -- SHAWSHANK PRISON -- WIDE SHOT -- DAY 外景--肖申克监狱--宽角镜头--白天
For the second time， State Police cruisers go rocketing up the road with SIRENS AND LIGHTS.
警笛声大作、警灯闪烁的州警巡逻车，第二次疾驰在道路上。
258 INT -- NORTON‘S OFFICE -- DAY （1966） 258 内景--诺顿办公室--白天
Norton opens his safe and pulls out the "ledger" -- it‘s Andy‘s Bible. The title page is inscribed by hand: "Dear Warden. You were right. Salvation lay within." Norton flips to the center of the book -- and finds the pages hollowed out in the shape of a rock-hammer.
诺顿打开保险箱，抽出“账本”--是安迪的《圣经》。扉页上题着：“亲爱的监狱长，你说的很对。得救之道就在其中。”
259 EXT -- PRISON -- DAY （1966） 259 外景--监狱--白天
Police cruisers everywhere. A media circus. REPORTERS jostle for position. A colorless DISTRICT ATTORNEY steps forward into CLOSEUP， flanked by a contingent of S.ATE TROOPERS.
警车停的到处都是。有如媒体的竞技场，记者们蜂拥着挤向监狱。一位面无表情的地方检察官走近镜头，两侧是全副武装的州警。
D.A. 检察官
Byron Hadley？ “拜伦.哈雷？”
ANGLE SHIFTS to reveal Captain Hadley. Staring. Waiting. 镜头转向傻站在那儿的哈雷队长。
D.A. 检察官
You have the right to remain silent. If you give up that right， anything you say will be used against you in court……
“你有权保持沉默，如果你放弃，你所说的一切都可能成为法庭上用做控告你……”
TROOPERS move in， cuffing Hadley‘s hands behind his back. The D.A. drones on. FLASHBULBS POP. Hadley says nothing. His face scrunches up. He begins to cry.
州警拥进来，把哈雷的双手背发到后面上了手铐。哈雷一言未发，他的面部扭曲着，开始哭泣。
RED （V.O.） 瑞德（旁白）
I wasn‘t there to see it， but I hear Byron Hadley was sobbing like a little girl when they took him away.
“当时我没在场，但我听说拜伦.哈雷被带走时哭的像个小姑娘。”
Hadley sobs all the way to the car. The D.A. snaps a gaze up toward Norton‘s window， motions his men to follow.
哈雷在车里不停地哭，检察官抬头望向诺顿的窗户，示意其他人跟过来。
260 INT -- NORTON‘S OFFICE -- DAY （1966） 260 内景--诺顿办公室--白天
Norton is staring out the window as they approach the building. He goes to his desk， opens a drawer. Inside lies a revolver and a box of shells.
诺顿透过窗户看着他们走近大楼。他走回办公桌，打开抽屉，里面放着一把左轮手枪和一盒子弹。
RED （V.O.） 瑞德（旁白）
Norton had no intention of goin‘ that quietly. “诺顿并不想这样被带走。”
261 INT -- PRISON CORRIDORS -- DAY （1966） 261 内景--监狱走廊--白天（1966）
The D.A. marches along amidst a phalanx of TROOPERS. 检查官走在州警中间。
262 INT -- NORTON‘S OFFICE -- DAY （1966） 262 内景--诺顿办公室--白天（1966）
Norton sits blankly at his desk， revolver before him. The doorknob rattles， a VOICE is heard:
诺顿呆呆地坐在办公桌前，面前放着手枪。门把手被拧地“咔嗒”作响，一个声音喊到：
D.A. （O.S.） 检察官
Samuel Norton？ We have a warrant for your arrest! Open up!
“塞缪尔.诺顿？我们授权逮捕你，开门！”
The POUNDING starts. Norton dumps the box of bullets out on thr desk. He starts sorting them to see which ones he likes.
撞门声响起，诺顿把子弹倒在桌子上，开始挑选他喜欢的子弹。
263 OUTSIDE HIS OFFICE 263 办公室外
Troopers hustle the hapless duty guard to Norton‘s door as he fumbles nervously with a huge key ring.
州警把倒霉的值班警卫推到门前，他发抖着摸出一大串钥匙。
DUTY GUARD 值班警卫
I‘m not sure which one it is…… “我不清楚哪一个是……”
He starts trying keys in the lock. And as the keys go sliding in one after another……
他开始将钥匙插进锁孔，一把又一把……
264 INT -- NORTON‘S OFFICE -- DAY （1966） 264 内景--诺顿办公室--白天

……so do the bullets. Norton is riveted to the door. For every key， he loads another bullet. Methodical and grim. He gets the final bullet in just as the right key slams home. The door bursts open. Men muscle in. Somebody SHOUTS. Troopers dive in all directions as Norton raises the gun -- -- and jams it under his chin. His head snaps back as the wall goes red. His swivel chair does a slow half-turn and creaks to a final stop. Troopers rise slowly， gazing in horror.
子弹也是一颗又一颗。诺顿盯着门口，每试一把钥匙，他就装上一颗子弹，有条不紊又异常阴沉。他推入最后一颗子弹，钥匙也正好把门打开。门被冲开，人们闯进来。有人大喊，诺顿将手枪抬起，州警们立即散在各个方向----诺顿把枪抵住下颚，头猛得一抬，鲜血溅红了墙壁。他的转椅缓缓地转了半圈，嘎吱一声停了下来。州警们慢慢地起身，害怕地望着这一幕。
RED （V.O.） 瑞德（旁白）
I like to think the last thing that went through his head……other than that bullet……was to wonder how the hell Andy Dufresne ever got the best of him.
“我总觉得在那颗子弹穿过诺顿脑袋的时候，他还在想，安迪怎么就打垮了他。”
PUSH SLOWLY to the wall to reveal Mrs. Norton‘s framed sampler trickling blood and brains……and we get our final Bible lesson for today: "HIS JUDGMENT COMETH AND THAT RIGHT SOON."
镜头缓慢推向墙壁，诺顿夫人的刺绣品滴淌着鲜血和脑浆……显示出影片的最后一条圣经之语：“主的审判马上就会到来。”
265 EXT -- PRISON YARD -- DAY （1966） 265 外景--监狱操场--白天
Mail call. Red hears his name. They pass him a postcard.
邮件到了，瑞德听到叫他的名字，人们递给他一张名信片。
RED （V.O.） 瑞德（旁白）
Not long after the warden deprived us of his company， I got a postcard in the mail. It was blank. But the postmark said， "McNary， Texas."
“监狱长倒台不久，我收到了一张明信片。上面空空的，邮戳上印着：“麦克纳瑞，德克萨斯”。
266 INT -- LIBRARY -- DAY （1966） 266 内景--图书馆--白天
Red sits with an atlas， tracing his finger down the page.
瑞德坐着拿着本地图册，用手指着看。
RED （V.O.） 瑞德（旁白）
McNary. Right on the border. That‘s where Andy crossed. （shuts the book） When I picture him heading south in his own car with the top town， it makes me laugh all over again……
“麦克纳瑞，就在边境，那就是安迪过境的地方。（合住了地图册）每当我想到他开着自己的车子穿过这个美国最南端的小镇，就会让我再次开怀不已……”
267 EXT -- MEXICO -- HIGHWAY -- DAY （1966） 267 外景--墨西哥--高速公路--白天（1996）
A red convertible rips along with Andy at the wheel， cigar jutting from his grin， warm wind fluttering his tie.
安迪开着一辆红色的敞蓬车疾驰在路上，嘴上叨着雪茄，暖风吹拂着他的领带。
RED （V.O.） 瑞德（旁白）
Andy Dufresne， who crawled through a river of shit and came out clean on the other side. Andy Dufresne， headed for the Pacific.
“安迪.杜弗兰，爬过污垢的河流，在彼岸洗净重生，奔向海洋。”
268 INT -- MESS HALL -- DAY （1966） 268 内景--监狱餐厅--白天
Heywood is regaling the table with some anecdote about Andy.
海沃德在饭桌旁起劲地讲着安迪的轶事。
RED （V.O.） 瑞德（旁白）
Those of us who knew him best talk about him often. I swear， the stuff he pulled. It always makes us laugh.
“我们这些熟悉他的人，经常的谈论他。无疑，有关他的话题，总会引起我们笑声。”
A wild burst of laughter. PUSH IN on Red. Feeling melancholy.
哄堂大笑，镜头推向瑞德，表情消沉。
RED （V.O.） 瑞德（旁白）
Sometimes it makes me sad， though， Andy being gone. I have to remind myself that some birds aren‘t meant to be caged， that‘s all. Their feathers are just too bright……
“安迪的离去，有时会让我难过。我必须承认有些鸟是关不住的，关不住。它们的羽毛是如此的鲜亮……”
269 EXT -- FIELDS -- LATE DAY （1966） 269 外景--田野--傍晚
Convicts hoe the fields. Guards patrol on horseback. 犯人们在锄草，守卫骑在马背上巡逻。
RED （V.O.） 瑞德（旁白）
……and when they fly away， the part of you that knows it was a sin to lock them up does rejoice……but still， the place you live is that much more drab and empty that they‘re gone.
“当它们飞走时，因摆脱了罪恶，你会替它们高兴。但是，你仍然还得生活在这个枯燥、乏味的地方。”
A DISTANT RUMBLE OF THUNDER. Red pauses， gazes off. Storm clouds coming in， backlit by the sun. A light drizzle begins.
远处雷声隆隆，瑞德停下手中的话，望向天空。乱云逼近，阳光从乌云背后透过来，小雨开始蒙蒙。
RED （V.O.） 瑞德（旁白）
I guess I just miss my friend. “我想我失去了朋友。”
270 INT -- PRISON CELL -- NIGHT （1966） 270 内景--牢房--夜晚
Red is sleeping. He wakes with a start. 瑞德从梦中惊醒。
RED （V.O.） 瑞德（旁白）
But there are times I curse him for the dreams he left behind……
“有时我常咒骂他给我留下来的梦境……”
He senses a presence， looks over his shoulder. There‘s a Rita Hayworth poster on his wall. He gets out of bed. Rita just keeps smiling， inscrutable. As Red watches， a brilliant round glow builds behind the poster， shining from the tunnel. The poster rips free， charred to ash in the blink of an eye as a shaft of holy white light stabs into the cell. Sunlight. Red staggers back against the glare.
瑞德感到有人在盯着他，墙上是丽塔.海沃斯的海报。他起身下床，丽塔保持着她那高深莫测的微笑。瑞德看着那海报，一束明亮的光柱自海报后面，从隧道中亮起。圣洁的光束射进牢房，将掀起的海报瞬间燃成灰烬。是阳光，瑞德摇晃着被眩目的光芒逼退。
A whirlwind kicks up， whipping everything into the air. The hole in the wall is like a giant vacuum cleaner -- papers， book， toiletries， bedding -- if it ain‘t nailed down， it gets sucked down the hole toward the light. Red fights it， but the suction drags him closer and closer……
一阵旋风刮来，将所有的东西卷到空中。墙上的隧道像一个巨大的真空吸尘器--纸张、书本、洗漱品、被褥--只要是没被固定的东西，全都被那束光芒吸进洞内。瑞德挣扎着，但那股吸力拖着他越来越近……
271 RED‘S POV 271 瑞德的视线
……and CAMERA rockets into the hole， getting sucked down an endless tunnel at impossible speed， the ROAR of air mixing with his drawn-out SCREAM， closer and closer to the light……
镜头冲进隧道，以不可思议的速度在无尽头的隧道中前行着，咆哮的气流混合着他拉长的尖叫，离那束光芒越来越近……
……and erupting out the other side into total silence and a beautiful white beach. The Pacific Ocean before us. Enormous. Mind-blowing. Beautiful beyond description. All we hear now are the gentle sound of waves.
镜头从隧道的另一端冲出，来到了一个格外沉静和美丽的白色沙滩。太平洋就在眼前，无边无际，如梦似幻，美丽的无法形容，轻柔的海浪声阵阵传来。
RED （V.O.） 瑞德（旁白）
……dreams where I am lost in a warm place with no memory.
“这梦境，让我迷失在一个完全陌生的温磬之地。”
A lone figure stands at water‘s edge. CAMERA KEEPS MOVING， coming up behind him and TRACKING AROUND to reveal -- Red.
一个孤独的背影立在水边，镜头继续移动，直至背影的后面，然后开始转动，显现出瑞德。
RED （V.O.） 瑞德（旁白）
An ocean so big it strikes me dumb. Waves so quiet they strike me deaf. Sunshine so bright it strikes me blind. It is a place that is blue beyond reason. Bluer than can possibly exist. Bluer than my mind can possibly grasp.
“巨大的海洋令我震惊无语，海浪的沉静又使我听不到声音，阳光如此耀眼，让我看不到任何东西。这是一个蓝得异乎寻常的地方，蓝过于世上的任何事物，蓝过于我头脑中的想像。”
272 AERIAL SHOT 272 高空镜头
Nothing for a million miles but beach， sky， and water. Red is a tiny speck at water‘s edge. Just another grain of sand.
无边无际的空间，没有别的，只有海岸、天空、海水。瑞德就是水边的一个小点，如同一粒沙子。
RED （V.O.） 瑞德（旁白）
I am terrified. There is no way home. “我很害怕，找不到路回家。”
273 INT -- RED‘S CELL -- NIGHT （1966） 273 内景--瑞德的号房--夜晚
Red wakes from the nightmare. He gets out of bed. Moves to the barred window of his cell. Peers up at the stars.
瑞德从恶梦中醒来，他起身下床，走到装着栅栏的窗户边，凝视着星空。
RED （V.O.） 瑞德（旁白）
Andy. I know you‘re in that place. Look at the stars for me just after sunset. Touch the sand……wade in the water……and feel free.
“安迪，我知道你在那儿。落日看星，抚摸沙滩，漫步水中，感受自由。”
FADE TO BLACK 屏幕渐变至全黑
274 AN IRON-BARRED DOOR 274 一记扇铁栏门
slides open with an enormous CLANG. A stark room beyond. CAMERA PUSHES through. SIX MEN AND ONE WOMAN sit at a long table. An empty chair faces them. We are again in:
随着一声巨响铁门打开，远端是一间空荡的屋子，镜头推近。六个男人和一个女人坐在一张长长的桌子前，对面放着一把空椅。镜头再次推进房子。
18. INT -- SHAWSHANK HEARINGS ROOM -- DAY （1967） 内景--听讯室--白天（1967）
Red enters， sits. 20 years older than when we first saw him.
瑞德进来，坐下。第一次出现此镜头时已以二十年了。
MAN #1 男1
Your file says you‘ve served forty years of a life sentence. You feel you‘ve been rehabilitated？

“你的档案上写着你已经服了40年的终生监禁，你悔过了么？”
Red doesn‘t answer. Just stares off. Seconds tick by. The parole board exchanges glances. Somebody clears his throat.
瑞德没有回答，怔怔地愣了几秒钟。陪审团的人互相看了看，有人清了清嗓子。
MAN #1 男1
Shall I repeat the question？ “用我重复一下问题么？”
RED 瑞德
I heard you. Rehabilitated. Let‘s see now. You know， come to think of it， I have no idea what that means.
“我听到了，悔过，就说它吧。反正，我不懂它意味着什么。”
MAN #2 男2
Well， it means you‘re ready to rejoin society as a--
“是这样，它意味着你准备好重新进入社会，作为一个……”
RED 瑞德
I know what you think it means. Me， I think it‘s a made-up word， a politician‘s word. A word so young fellas like you can wear a suit and tie and have a job. What do you really want to know？ Am I sorry for what I did？
“我知道你的意思。但是，我认为它是一个虚构的词，一个官方用语，一个让你这样的年轻人能够有从事体面工作的词。你到底想知道什么？我是否后悔所犯下的事么？”
MAN #2 男2
Well……are you？ “嗯，你后悔么？”
RED 瑞德
Not a day goes by I don‘t feel regret， and not because I‘m in here or because you think I should. I
look back on myself the way I was……stupid kid who did that terrible crime……wish I could talk sense to him. Tell him how things are. But I can‘t. That kid‘s long gone， this old man is all that‘s left， and I have to live with that. （beat） "Rehabilitated？" That‘s a bullshit word， so you just go on ahead and
stamp that form there， sonny， and stop wasting my damn time. Truth is， I don‘t give a shit.
“我没有一天不后悔，并不是因为我在这儿或者是你认为我应该后悔我才这样说。我回顾过去，我还是个不懂事的孩子的时候犯下的罪过，真希望能够跟他理智地交谈，告诉他人生道理。但这不可能，青年时代已离我远去，只剩下这么一个老头，苟延残喘。悔过？那是胡诌的词儿。你继续做你的事，在表上盖你的章吧，年轻人，别他妈的浪费我的时间了！告诉你，我一点都不再乎！”
The parole board just stares. Red sits drumming his fingers.
听审团都听愣了，瑞德坐在那儿叩着手指。
CLOSEUP -- PAROLE FORM 特写--假释表
A big rubber stamp SLAMS down -- and lifts away to reveal the word "APPROVED" in red ink.
大大的橡皮章盖下--起来，显示出红色的章印“批准”。
275 EXT -- SHAWSHANK PRISON -- DAY 275 外景--肖申克监狱
TWO SHORT SIREN BLASTS herald the opening of the main gate. It swings hugely open， revealing Red standing in his cheap suit， carrying a cheap bag， wearing a cheap hat. He walks out， still looking stunned.
二声急促的警笛声，监狱大门敞开。瑞德穿着廉价西装，戴着顶帽子，手里拎着一个箱子走出来，看上去仍晕晕的。
276 INT -- BUS -- DAY 276 内景--公共汽车
Red rides the bus， clutching the seat before him， gripped by terror of speed and motion.
瑞德坐在车上，抓着前面的座位，由于害怕车的速度和运动，十分紧张。
277 EXT -- BREWSTER HOTEL -- LATE AFTERNOON 277 外景--布鲁斯特旅馆--黄昏
Red arrives at the Brewster， three stories high and even less to look at than it used to be.
瑞德到达旅馆，三层，看起来比以前稍低些了。
27B INT -- BREWSTER -- LATE DAY 278 内景--布鲁斯特--傍晚
A BLACK WOMAN leads Red up the stairs toward the top floor.
一位黑人妇女领着瑞德上顶楼。
279 INT -- RED‘S ROOM -- LATE DAY 279 内景--瑞德的卧室--傍晚
Small， old， dingy. An arched window with a view of Congress Street. Traffic noise floats up. Red enters and pauses， staring up at the ceiling beam. Carved into the wood are the words: "Brooks Hatlen was here."
窄小、破旧、脏乱，一扇朝向议会大街的窗子，街道的嘈杂声传上来。瑞德走近屋子，然后止步，盯着房梁看。上面刻着：“布鲁克斯.哈特兰曾经到此。”
280 INT -- FOODWAY MARKET -- DAY 280 内景--福德威超市
Loud. Jangling with PEOPLE and NOISE. We find Red bagging groceries. Registers are humming， kids are shrieking. Red calls to the STORE MANAGER:
纷乱的喧哗声，瑞德在给物品打包。计价器嗡嗡的响着，孩子们大声的叫着。瑞德跟商店经理打招呼：
RED 瑞德
Sir？ Restroom break sir？ “先生，去厕所行么？”
MANAGER 经理
（motions him over）You don‘t need to ask me every time you go take a piss. Just go. Understand？
（示意瑞德）“你不要每次都来问来我，想去你就去，明白？”
28l INT -- EMPLOYEE RESTROOM -- DAY 281 内景--洗手间--白天
Red steps to the urinal， stares at himself in the wall mirror.
瑞德走向小便池，看着墙镜中的自己。
RED （V.O.） 瑞德（旁白）
Thirty years I‘ve been asking permission to piss. I can‘t squeeze a drop without say-so.
“我请示充许撒尿请示了三十年，没有许可我一滴也尿不出来。”
A strange east Indian guitar-whine begins. The Beatles. George Harrison‘s "Within You Without You……"
一阵神秘的印度吉他声文哀怨的响起，披头士，乔治.哈里森的“没有你……”
282 EXT -- STREET -- DAY 282 外景--街道--白天
……which carries through as Red walks. People and traffic. He keeps looking at the women. An alien species.
伴随着音乐，瑞德在行人与车辆中走着，他不停地看着女人，如同异族。
RED （V.O.） 瑞德（旁白）
Women， too， that‘s the other thing. I forgot they were half the human race. There‘s women everywhere， every shape and size. I find myself semi-hard most of the time， cursing myself for a dirty old man.
“还有女人，那又是一件麻烦事，我都忘记了她们也是人类的另一半。到处都是女人，各种各样的女人，我发现自己时常怔在那儿傻看着骂自己是个老色鬼。”
TWO YOUNG WOMEN stroll by in cut-offs and t-shirts.
两个穿着烂装牛仔和T恤的女郎从旁边走过。
RED （V.O.） 瑞德（旁白）
Not a brassiere to be seen， nipples poking out at the world. Jeezus， pleeze-us. Back in my day， a woman out in public like that would have been arrested and given a sanity hearing.
“没有乳罩，乳头向前戳着世界。上帝，拯救我们！在我们那个时代，这种穿着的妇女如果出现在公众前，是要被逮捕还会开一个判断其神经是否正常的听证会。”
283 EXT -- PARK -- DUSK 283 外景--公园--黄昏
Red finds the park filled with HIPPIES. Hanging out. Happening. Here‘s the source of the music: a radio. A HIPPIE GIRL gyrates to the Beatles， stoned， in her own world.
瑞德看到公园里到处都是嬉皮士在闲逛，偶尔会有台收音机放着音乐。一个嬉皮女郎随着披头士的音乐旋转，迷醉在自己的世界里。
RED （V.O.） 瑞德（旁白）
They‘re calling this the Summer of Love. Summer of Loonies， you ask me.
“他们管这叫爱之夏。要我说，这就是疯之夏。”
284 INT -- PAROLE OFFICE -- DAY 284 内景--假释办公室
Red sits across from his PAROLE OFFICER. The P.O. is filling out his report.
瑞德坐在假释官对面，假释官正在填写他的报告。
P.O. 假释官
You staying out of the bars， Red？ “你不要律师，瑞德？”
RED 瑞德
Yes sir. That I am. “是的先生，我不要。”
P.O. 假释官
How you doing otherwise？ Adjusting okay？ “那你觉得如何？还适应么？”
RED 瑞德
Things got different out here. “外面的事情都变了。”
P.O. 假释官
Tell me about it. Young punks protesting the war. You imagine？ Even my own kid. Oughtta bust his fuckin‘ skull.
“那就说说吧，无知的年轻人反战，你认为呢？甚至我的孩子，都他妈的应该敲碎他的脑袋！”

RED 瑞德
Guess the world moved on. “我想是世道不一样了。”
285 INT -- FOODWAY -- DAY 285 内景--福德威--白天
Bagging groceries. CHILDREN underfoot. One points a toy gun at Red， pumping the trigger. Red focuses on the gun， listening to it CLICKETY-CLACK. Sparky wheel grinding.
瑞德在打包，孩子们碍手碍脚。一个孩子拿着玩具枪指着瑞德，扣动扳机。瑞德瞪着枪，听着它咔嗒做响，枪中的转轮磨擦着放出火花。
The kids get swept off by MOM. Red starts bagging the next customer. SLOW PUSH IN on Red. Surrounded by MOTION and NOISE. Feeling like the eye of a hurricane. People everywhere， whipping around him like a gale. Strange. Loud. Dizzying. It gets distorted and weird， slow and thick， pressing in on him from all sides. The noise level intensifies. The hollering of children deepens and distends into LOW EERIE HOWLS.
孩子们被妈妈拉走，瑞德开始给下一位顾客打包。镜头慢慢的推近，瑞德被四周的喧闹包围，犹如处在飓风中心。到处都是人，在他身边游走，如同旋风。陌生、嘈杂、令人眩晕，这一切开始扭曲、失真，从四周缓慢、沉重地向他挤压过来。噪音加大，孩子们的叫喊声更为强烈，一直扩展到低沉、可怕的嚎叫。
He‘s in the grip of a major anxiety attack. Tries to shake himself out of it. Can‘t. Fumbles the final items into the bag. Walks away. Trying not to panic. Trying not to run. He makes his way through the store. Blinking sweat. He bumps into a lady‘s cart， mumbles an apology， keeps going. Breaks into a trot. Down the aisle， cut to the left， through the door into the back rooms， faster and faster， running now， slamming through a door marked "Employees Only" into --
焦虑的侵袭将他紧紧裹住，他试图摆脱，但做不到。他把最后一件东西笨拙着塞入袋内，转身走开，边走边努力抑制住奔跑的冲动。他流着虚汗，走过超市，不小心碰到一位女士的推车，含糊着道了歉，继续走，接着小跑起来，沿着通道，左转，穿过门进入内室，越来越快，已经是在跑步了，最后，撞开一扇写着“非职员勿入”的门，跑了进去。
286 INT -- EMPLOYEE RESTROOM -- DAY 286 内景--洗手间--白天
-- where he slams the door and leans heavily against it， shutting everything out， breathing heavily. Alone now.
他关上门，然后重重的靠在门上，把一切都屏敝在外面。他大口的喘着气，终于独自一人了。
He goes to the sink， splashes his face， tries to calm down. He can still hear them out there. They won‘t go away. He glances around the restroom. Small. Not small enough.
他走到水槽边，撩水洗脸，试图冷静。他还能听到外面的声音，那些人并没有走远。他环顾四周，空间不大，但还不够。
He enters a stall. Locks the door. Puts the toilet lid down and sits on the john. Better. He can actually reach out and touch the walls now. They‘re close. Safe. Almost small enough. He draws his feet up so he can‘t be seen if somebody walks in. He‘ll just sit here for a while. Until he calms down.
他进入一个隔间，锁上门。把盖上马桶的盖子，坐下来。这样好些了，实际上他都可以碰到周围的挡板，离得如此之近，这很安全，空间差不多够小了。他抬起双脚，这样即使有人进来也不会看到他，他就是想在这儿坐一会，直到情绪稳定。
287 EXT -- STREET -- DUSK 287 外景--大街--黄昏
Red is walking home. 瑞德走在回家的路上。
RED （V.O.） 瑞德
There is a harsh truth to face. No way I‘m gonna make it on the outside.
“我面临着一个严厉的现实：在外面，我没有办法恢复正常。”
He pauses at a pawnshop window. An array of handguns.
他停在了一家当铺的窗户前，里面放着一排手枪。
RED （V.O.） 瑞德
All I do anymore is think of ways to break my parole.
“现在我一心只想中断我的假释。”
The SHOPKEEPER appears at the glass， locking the door and flipping the sign: CLOSED.
店主出现在窗户前，锁上店门，翻转标牌：“打烊”。
288 INT -- RED‘S ROOM -- NIGHT 288 内景--瑞德的房间--夜晚
Red lies smoking in bed. Unable to sleep.
瑞德躺在床上抽烟，无法入睡。
RED （V.O.） 瑞德（旁白）
Terrible thing， to live in fear. Brooks Hatlen knew it. Knew it all too well. All I want is to be back
where things make sense. Where I won‘t have to be afraid all the time.
“生活在恐惧中，真可怕。布鲁克斯.哈特兰早就知道，他太明白这一点了。我想在只想回去，回到有意义的地方，回到我永远不必担心受怕的地方。”
He glances up at the ceiling beam. "Brooks Hatlen was here."
他仰起目光看着房梁：“布鲁克斯.哈特兰曾经到此。”
RED （V.O.） 瑞德（旁白）
Only one thing stops me. A promise I made to Andy.
“只有一件事情阻止了我，我承诺给安迪的诺言。”
289 EXT -- COUNTRY ROAD -- MORNING 289 外景--乡村公路--早晨
A pickup truck rattles up the road trailing dust and pulls to a stop. Red hops off the back， waves his thanks. The truck drives on. Red starts walking. PAN TO a roadside sign: BUXTON.
一辆卡车拖着尾尘停在路上，瑞德从车后面跳下来，挥手致谢。卡车开走，瑞德开始步行。镜头摇摄到路旁的指示牌：巴克斯顿。
290 EXT -- MAINE COUNTRYSIDE -- DAY 290 外景--缅因州边境--白天
High white clouds in a blazing blue sky. The trees fiery with autumn color. Red walks the fields and back-roads， cheap compass in hand. Looking for a certain hayfield.
晴朗的蓝天上高高地悬着几朵白云，树木充满了秋天的颜色。瑞德手里拿着廉价的指南针，走在田间和偏僻的小路上，找寻那个干草场。
291 EXT -- COUNTRYSIDE -- DAY 291 外景--乡间--白天
Walking. Searching. The day turning late. Red finds himself staring at a distant field. There‘s a long rock wall， like something out o f a Robert Frost poem. Big oak tree. Red checks his compass. North end. He crosses a dirt road into the field. 边走边找，天色渐晚。这时，瑞德发现了远处的一片田地，有着一堵长长的石墙，和一棵大橡树，有些像罗伯特.费洛斯特诗中所写的情景。瑞德看看指南针，正北。他穿过一条污浊的公路走入那片场地。
292 EXT -- HAYFIELD -- DAY 292 外景--干草场
Red walks the long rock wall， nearing the tree. A squirrel scolds him from a low branch， scurries up higher. Red studies the base of the wall. Nothing unusual here. Just a bunch of rocks set in stone. He sighs. Fool‘s errand. Turns to go.
瑞德沿着石墙，走到橡树前，一只松鼠嘶叫着跑到高处。瑞德仔细观察墙基，并无异常，除了堆在石头中的一些岩石。徒劳无获，他叹口气，转身就走。
Something catches his eye. He walks back， squats， peering closer. Wets a fingertip and rubs a stone. A layer of dust comes off. Volcanic glass. Gleaming black. He tries to get the rock out， anticipation growing. It won‘t come; it‘s too smooth. He pulls a pocketknife and levers the rock free. It tumbles at his feet， leaving a ragged hole.
这时，有个东西引起了他的注意。他走回来蹲下，靠近观察，并弄湿手指在一块岩石上擦拭。一层尘土被擦掉，是火山玻璃，闪着黑光。希望变大，他试图把它取出来，但太滑。他掏出把折刀，把火山玻璃撬起。它滚到脚下，留出一个凹凸不平的洞。
Red leans down and solves the mystery at last， staring at the object buried under the rock. Stunned. It‘s an envelope wrapped in plastic. Written on it is a single word: "Red."
（Red leans down and solves the mystery at last，）看着埋在火山石下的东西，惊呆了。是一个包在塑料布里的信封，上而写着一个单词：“瑞德”。
Red pulls the envelope out and rises. He just stares at it for a while， almost afraid to open it. But open it he does. Inside is a smaller envelope and a letter. Red begins to read:
瑞德取出信封拿在手里看着，一时间竟不敢打开。最终他打开信封，里面又是一个小信封和一封信，瑞德开始看信：
ANDY （V.O.） 安迪（旁白）
Dear Red. If you‘re reading this， you‘ve gotten out. And if you‘ve come this far， maybe you‘re willing to come a little further. You remember the name of the town， don‘t you？ I could use a good man to help me get my project on wheels. I‘ll keep an eye out for you and the chessboard ready. （beat） Remember， Red. Hope is a good thing， maybe the best of things， and no good thing ever dies. I will be hoping that this letter finds you， and finds you well. Your friend. Andy.
“亲爱的瑞德，如果你看到这些字，你就已经出来了。而且，你既然已经走了这么远，也不再乎多走一点吧。还记得那个小镇的名字吗？我会用一个称职的人帮我实施我的计划，盼着你的到来，棋盘已备好，记住，瑞德。希望是件好的事情，也许是最好的。而且，美好永不消失。我希望这封信能找到你，你也安然无恙。你的朋友，安迪。”
By now， tears are spilling silently down Red‘s cheeks. He opens the other envelope and fans out a stack of new fifty- dollar bills. Twenty of them. A thousand dollars.
此刻，泪水涌出顺着瑞德的脸庞静静地滑下。他打开小信封，散开一叠崭新的五十元美钞，二张，一千美元。
293 INT -- RED‘S ROOM -- DAY （1967） 293 内景--瑞德的房间--白天
Red is dressed in his suit. He finishes knotting his tie， puts his hat on. His bag is by the door. He takes one last look around. Only one thing left to do. He pulls a wooden chair to the center of the room and gazes up at the ceiling beam.
瑞德身穿西装，打好领带，戴上帽子，他的提箱就在门口。瑞德最后看了一眼四周，只剩下一件事情要做了。他把椅子拖到房子中间，抬头打量房梁。
RED （V.O.） 瑞德
Get busy living or get busy dying. That is goddamn right.
“要么忙着活，要么忙着死，说得真他妈的对！”
He steps up on the chair. It wobbles under his weight.
他踏上椅子，椅子在他的体重下颤动起来。
294 INT -- BREWSTER -- RED‘S DOOR -- DAY （1967） 294 内景--布鲁斯特旅舍--白天
The door opens. Red exits with his bag and heads down the stairs， leaving the door open. CAMERA PUSHES through， BOOMING UP to the ceiling beam which reads: "Brooks Hatlen was here." A new message has been carved alongside the old: "So was Red."
门开了，瑞德拎着提箱出来向楼下走去。门没有关，镜头推进，快速上移到刻着“布鲁克斯.哈特兰曾经到此。”的房梁，上面新刻着一行字：“瑞德也来过。”
295 INT -- GREYHOUND BUS STATION -- DAY （1967） 295 内景--长途汽车站--白天
TRACKING SHOT reveals a long line of people at the counter.
镜头掠过，显示出售票台前长长的队伍。
RED （V.O.） 瑞德（旁白）
For the second time in my life， I am guilty of committing a crime.
“这是我有生以来第二次，感到自己在犯罪。”
CAMERA brings us to Red， next in line， bag by his feet.
镜头照向瑞德，队伍中的下一个，提箱放在脚边。
RED （V.O.） 瑞德（旁白）
Parole violation. I doubt they‘ll toss up any roadblocks for that. Not for an old crook like me. （steps up） McNary， Texas？
“违反假释。但我怀疑他们会因此而设路障，来抓捕我这把年级的老贼。（走到售票口）麦克纳瑞，德克萨斯。”
296 EXT -- TRAVELING SHOT -- DAY （1967） 296 外景--移动拍摄--白天
A gorgeous New England landscape whizzes by， fields and trees a blur of motion. ANGLE SHIFTS to reveal a Greyhound SceniCruiser barreling up the road， pulling abreast of us. CAMERA TRAVELS from window to window， passing faces. We finally come to Red gazing out at the passing landscape.

美丽的新格兰风景从眼前掠过，田野和树木因迅速倒退而模糊。镜头切换，显出一辆在公路上疾驶的灰狗（美国长途汽车公司）豪华长途车，从眼前经过。镜头移过一个又一个的车窗，扫过每张面孔，最终来到瑞德的脸上，他正在注视窗外移动的风景。
RED （V.O.） 瑞德（旁白）
I find I am so excited I can barely sit still or hold a thought in my head. I think it is the excitement
only a free man can feel， a free man at the start of a long journey whose conclusion is uncertain……
“我发现自己如此兴奋，几乎不能静静地坐着，脑子也在一刻不停的思索。我想，这种兴奋只有一个自由的人才能体会，一个刚开始长途旅行却不知道结局的自由人……”
297 THE BUS 297 长途汽车
ROARS past camera， dwindling to a mere speck on the horizon.
汽车轰鸣着从镜头前驶过，渐渐缩小成地平线上的一个斑点。
RED （V.O.） 瑞德（旁白）
I hope I can make it across the border. I hope to see my friend and shake his hand. I hope the Pacific is as blue as it has been in my dreams. （beat） I hope.
“我希望我能成功跨越边境，我希望见到我的朋友并跟他握手，我希望太平洋如同我梦中一样的蓝，（beat）一样的蓝。”
298 EXT -- BEACH -- WIDE PANORAMIC SHOT -- DAY （1967） 298
19. 外景--海滩--全景镜头--白天298
A distant boat lies on its side in the sand like an old wreck that‘s been left to rot in the sun. There‘s someone out there.
远处一艘游艇侧倒在沙滩上，就像一辆在太阳下等着烂掉的老爷车，还有一个人呆在那儿。
299 CLOSER ON BOAT 299 镜头推进游艇
A MAN is meticulously stripping the old paint and varnish by hand， face hidden with goggles and kerchief mask.
一个男人正在仔细的去除旧漆，用手涂漆。他脸上包着毛巾，戴着风镜。
Red appears b.g.， a distant figure walking out across the sand， wearing his cheap suit and carrying his cheap bag.
瑞德出现（镜头背景处，一个遥远的身影在走过沙滩），穿着便宜的西装，拎着廉价的提箱。
The man on the boat pauses. Turns slowly around. Red arrives with a smile as wide as the horizon. The other man raises his goggles and pulls down his mask. Andy， of course.
船上的男人停了下来，慢慢的转过身，瑞德带着无比灿烂的笑容走过来。那个男人抬起风镜，扯下面巾，是安迪，没错。
ANDY 安迪
You look like a man who knows how to get things.
“看起来你很像一个能弄到东西的人。”
RED 瑞德
I‘m known to locate certain things from time to time.
“我常常知道从哪能找到东西。”
Red shrugs off his jacket and picks up a sander. Together， they start sanding the hull as we.
瑞德脱去上衣，捡起磨沙机，与安迪一起打磨船体。
FADE OUT 淡出
THE END 剧终